The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Marchers stress peace over partisanship after referendum
Approximately 100 demonstrators gathered outside the Colombian consulate in Montreal on Monday, October 10, at the corner of Rue Metcalfe and Sherbrooke. They rallied in favour of peace in Colombia after approximately 52 years of war between the federal government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).
The FARC grew out of a communist movement which organized grassroots anti-imperialist resistance in rural areas against corporate and state violence, and provided basic supplies and aid to impoverished communities which were effectively outside government jurisdiction.
Since the 1980s, however, the group has engaged in increasingly aggressive paramilitary operations aimed at expanding the territory under its control. These operations have been largely financed by cocaine trafficking, gold mining, and kidnapping for ransom.
Additionally, they have committed well-documented human rights abuses including the torture and killing of hostages, the recruitment of child soldiers, and violence against Indigenous peoples.
At various moments in its history, the FARC has faced armed opposition from right-wing paramilitaries, sometimes supported variously by drug cartels, Colombian state actors, and American CIA-backed counter-insurgents. Rural populations have suffered as a result of decades of violence between these factions.
Peace negotiations between the Colombian government and the FARC have been attempted several times since the 1980s, with the latest iteration having come closest to achieving a workable solution.
Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos and the FARC leadership signed a peace deal on September 26, concluding four years of peace negotiations. The final agreement, however, was rejected by the Colombian population in a plebiscite, which the “NO” camp won narrowly with 50.2 per cent of the vote. Only 37 per cent of the electorate participated.
“The purpose of this march,” read the event’s Facebook page, “is to ask the Colombian government and the FARC that they reach a new agreement, if possible this same year […] and that the bilateral ceasefire is not halted!”
Prior to the march, organizers warned attendees not to bring banners that reflect their positions on the referendum.
The event’s Facebook page specified that “this event should not feature banners that promote ‘YES’ or the ‘NO’ vote of the plebiscite. Let’s bring white flags, Colombian flags, and white balloons.”
“The purpose of this march is to ask the Colombian government and the FARC that they reach a new agreement, if possible this same year […] and that the bilateral ceasefire is not halted!”
Photographs were taken in front of the consulate before demonstrators walked down Avenue Metcalfe to Dorchester Square, chanting “Queremos la paz! We want peace! Viva la paz! Long live peace!”
Organizers had also arranged for rally participants to videotape messages of hope and peace for family members and others back in Colombia.
In an interview with The Daily, José Camargo, a Colombian psychology and honours philosophy student at McGill and one of the main organizers of the demonstration, explained why the demonstration emphasized peace rather than the “YES” or “NO” votes.
“The conflict between the FARC guerillas and the government has lasted for 52 years at least,” he said, “and for the first time in the history of our country, we have reached […] a bilateral ceasefire. But since the plebiscite, the bilateral ceasefire might end. We don’t know yet.”
According to the BBC, Santos announced on October 4, two days after the referendum, that the bilateral ceasefire between the FARC and the government will have to end on October 31 if no common ground can be reached.
“Queremos la paz! We want peace! Viva la paz! Long live peace!”
“The reason why we’re marching is because we all want peace in the country,” Camargo said. “We all want this conflict to end. And at the same time, something that we want to make clear is here [at this rally] we are not taking a stance on the result of the plebiscite. [It] already happened. […] All Colombians want peace, whether or not they voted ‘YES’ or ‘NO.’”
“The plebiscite was asking for the approval of a specific peace agreement, but not necessarily for peace,” he continued. “So a lot of people who voted against the plebiscite […] want peace for the country as well. They just want some points in the agreement to change.”
Maria Silgado, another main organizer of the event, spoke with The Daily about the urgency of peace in Colombia.
“We don’t want to wait anymore because not only [do we want the] innocent people, [but] the people involved directly with the war–those kids fighting against each other–we want them to be part of our society. We want them to have the same opportunities that we have,” she said.
“The conflict between the FARC guerillas and the government has lasted for 52 years at least, and for the first time in the history of our country, we have reached […] a bilateral ceasefire. But since the plebiscite, the bilateral ceasefire might end. We don’t know yet.”
Silgado went on to praise Santos’ handling of the negotiations with the FARC. Santos recently was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize “for his resolute efforts to bring the country’s more than 50-year long civil war to an end, a war that has cost the lives of at least 220,00 Colombians and displaced close to six million people.”
“He wants to end the war after 52 years, and nobody before him could do that,” Silgado said. “He’s the […] first president who’s there sitting across the table from [the FARC], and trying to find a way out [of the war]. I think the prize is well deserved, but he needs to keep working. [Peace] has to come faster.”
While the event put an emphasis on peace over partisanship, many demonstrators had differing views on the referendum and the peace agreement itself.
Juan Diego, a McGill student with family in Colombia, favored the “YES” vote.
“I think the agreement was very fair,” he said. “It took almost 5 years to negotiate […] Many international organizations thought it was one of the most comprehensive peace treaties in history, and at the same time, many victims of the conflict were for the agreement, because they didn’t want others to suffer what they had suffered.”
“The ‘NO’ vote passed though,” he pointed out, “and we have to respect the democratic decision. People voted ‘NO,’ and we cannot go against that. The treaty needs to be renegotiated again, and [the government] needs to include the NO camp in the negotiations.”
Camilo, another demonstrator, concurred with Diego’s views, and addressed many “NO” camp voters’ problem with the Colombian government’s leniency toward past FARC crimes.
“It took almost 5 years to negotiate […] Many international organizations thought it was one of the most comprehensive peace treaties in history, and at the same time, many victims of the conflict were for the agreement, because they didn’t want others to suffer what they had suffered.”
“The agreement was quite fair between the two parts,” he said. “Let’s be honest: if the guerillas would have known they would go to jail for the rest of their lives, they would have never agreed.”
However, Valentine, another student at McGill, pointed out fears of FARC leadership joining mainstream Colombian politics. “I think the [biggest] fear of the people is that if those [FARC guerillas] who committed serious crimes [might] go into politics,” she said.
According to CNN, “under the agreement, FARC would have been given 10 seats in Congress and their votes would have started to count in 2018.”
Camilo noted that “it’s better that they have a voice [in Congress] and fighting for what they believe in [there], instead of fighting with guns. […] It’s better to fight with words than with weapons.”
In contrast, Valentine said that “it is scary to know that someday someone who killed a lot of people might be President. I know that it might not happen, but it could.”
Overall, attendees of the march felt that the peace process in Colombia has become too politicized and that increased civility in negotiations would be necessary to assure peace.
“It became a political thing,” said Alicia Remont Ospina, a friend of both Diego and Valentine. “Some people voted against Santos [out of spite]. The agreement became about politics, not peace in Colombia.”
“It is scary to know that someday someone who killed a lot of people might be President. I know that it might not happen, but it could.”
Diego agreed. “The issue became whether you are for or against peace,” he said. “But that’s not the issue. [It was] simply do you agree with the agreement or not?”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Councilors also discuss Board of Governor’s inaccessibility
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council met on October 13, where they discussed four notices of motion, including a notice of motion regarding the free menstrual hygiene products policy, a fund referendum question for said policy, the Midnight Kitchen’s existence referendum question, and the creation of Musicians Collective fee.
Three motions were passed, including a motion regarding the amendment of SSMU’s internal regulations of governance, a motion regarding the election of student senators from the Faculty of Medicine and School of Nursing, and a motion to support the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE)’s collective bargaining efforts.
Council also heard a presentation on SSMU’s 2015-2016 audited financial statements and a presentation regarding representation on McGill’s Board of Governors (BoG).
SSMU Alternative and Equitable Governance Researcher Leslie Anne St. Amour presented a report concerning representation on the BoG., focusing on student representation, the appointment of members at large, and lack of transparency at BoG meetings.
The BoG has 25 voting members, 12 of whom are members at large from the community, St. Amour explained. There are two student seats on the BoG, one representing SSMU and one representing the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS).
Members at large are nominated to the Board and approved by a committee, she said, but the criteria used to approve them is not known to the public. Unlike many other universities, McGill does not have public applications to become a member at large.
St. Amour also discussed the lack of transparency at BoG meetings. “In terms of accountability and transparency, so much of what the Board of Governors does is done during closed sessions where interested students and community members can’t witness that decision,” she said, “and that can lead to a lot of lack of understanding and cynicism.”
She further highlighted that a few other universities across Canada have strict consultation protocols with students on decisions that impact students directly, but McGill limits the students’ role in decision making.
St. Amour made several recommendations in line with her findings. She recommended that the board look into developing consultation with students, and make procedural changes addressing how much happens during closed sessions of BoG meetings and tracking how members vote. She also suggested the Board create an open forum and question period at meetings so students’ voices will be heard.
Council discussed two notices of motion regarding the potential adoption of a policy that would provide free menstrual hygiene products, including pads and tampons, and approving a referendum question that would ask students to support the creation of a non-opt-outable fee of $1.68 per semester per student to supply said products.
These products would be provided across campus in Healthy McGill kiosks and in both gendered and neutral gender bathrooms, SSMU VP Student Life Elaine Patterson and SSMU President Ben Ger explained.
There were concerns regarding what would happen with surplus funding if only a portion of the products were used: “The original idea is that if there is a surplus in the fund we would use it to purchase alternative [menstrual] products,” Patterson explained. “In terms of the fund continuing to build up, I don’t believe any provisions have been made but we can certainly look into that in editing this motion.”
A motion was brought to support AMUSE’s collective bargaining efforts. Currently, AMUSE is engaged in the bargaining process for a new collective agreement with the University.
Over 50 per cent of AMUSE employees work for minimum wage, which is $10.85 per hour.* According to the motion, independent research has found that the average living wage in Montreal is $15.38 per hour.
AMUSE President Claire Michela spoke to Council regarding AMUSE’s bargaining demands, which include “equal treatment [and] respect for casual workers, including hiring priority for jobs you’ve already done,” accurate job descriptions and wages, stable jobs, a $15 minimum wage, and a better online job posting system as well as more student input for work study jobs.
The motion spurred debate regarding the demands for a $15 per hour minimum wage and hiring priority.
Last year, SSMU didn’t take a formal position on the 15 and Fair McGill campaign, which seeks a minimum wage of $15 per hour for all workers at McGill. Senate Caucus representative Joshua Chin raised concerns, saying “last meeting at Council, I asked specifically why SSMU cannot endorse the 15 and Fair Campaign […] and the answer I got was that because SSMU itself is not able to pay their employees a minimum of $15 an hour.”
“Given that now we’re presented with this motion to endorse AMUSE bargaining positions, is this not kind of counterintuitive, [since SSMU did not endorse 15 and Fair] and would this not also detract from the bargaining itself?” he asked.
Many councilors noted that SSMU, unlike McGill, does not have the budget to pay its employees a minimum wage of $15 per hour. This is largely because much of SSMU’s budget goes to paying rent to the University and the failure to raise the base fee last year.
“We keep making comparisons to SSMU not being able to pay its workers $15. McGill is not SSMU. McGill has money […] McGill has a responsibility to pay its workers the minimum wage. That’s not an argument,” Environment representative Tuviere Okome said in support of the motion.
SSMU VP University Affairs Erin Sobat noted that SSMU could look into adopting a $15 minimum wage for its employees if Council wanted it to be explored further.
Engineering representative Richard (Tre) Mansdoerfer raised concerns regarding the demand for hiring priority. “I […] feel very uncomfortable supporting appendix number one [which outlined hiring priority for applicants that had already held the same job] because I feel this really does propose a barrier for a lot of members.”
AMUSE employees who are students are limited by the government to performing the same job for three semesters. However, Michela said, many AMUSE employees are doing work study jobs, which essentially act as financial aid, and are often not rehired after one semester. If they are not re-hired for the same job – which, according to Michela, is a common occurrence – that reduces their chances of having a steady income.
Council voted to approve the motion regarding support for AMUSE collective bargaining with one abstentions and two against.
*The Quebec minimum wage is $10.75 per hour, however, AMUSE employee’s minimum wage is $10.85 per hour.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panel highlights conflict resolution
CW: suicide, suicidal ideation
On Monday, October 10, the QED Journal hosted a panel discussion called “Queer Conversations: Suicidality, Conflict, and Repair” at Le Cagibi. The event was held in response to the recent suicide of trans writer and activist Bryn Kelly.
The panel, hosted by author Sarah Schulman and trans writer and artist Morgan M Page, centered around suicide prevention and conflict resolution in the queer community.
“We are in the middle of a suicide epidemic within queer and trans communities that reaches across all segments of our community and has very disproportionate impacts on the most marginalized in our community, particularly Indigenous people who often cross over with our community and who, in Canada, have the highest suicide rates of any group, as well as Black and other people of colour,” Page said in her introductory remarks.
“We are in the middle of a suicide epidemic within queer and trans communities that reaches across all segments of our community and has very disproportionate impacts on the most marginalized in our community […]”
“It is a large and extremely sensitive topic that we can’t possibly hope to unravel in one evening, but we’re hoping through discussing one person’s suicide [that] this will be fruitful as we all move forward,” she continued.
Schulman and Page both talked about their relationship with Kelly and their involvement with her funeral, including their contribution to the eulogies. Schulman described the process she went through in preparing a eulogy, which Kelly’s partner, Gaines Parker, preferred to call a “political sermon.”
Discussion about the “political sermon” focused on whether to include how Kelly had killed herself. Schulman said she and others close to Kelly felt strongly that it was important information to share.
“It is a large and extremely sensitive topic that we can’t possibly hope to unravel in one evening, but we’re hoping through discussing one person’s suicide [that] this will be fruitful as we all move forward.”
“Saying the way the person killed themselves was not the same as telling people how to kill themselves,” Schulman said. She added that she hoped including the more graphic and real aspects of what had occurred would discourage other people from doing the same thing.
Page shared that she had also read the political sermon. “The effect on me was very immediate,” she said. “I felt that it dissuaded all of the suicidal ideation that I’ve been feeling for me personally.”
She further emphasized that suicides within the trans and queer community happen far too often.
“Suicides happen fairly regularly in the community around me, whether they are friends I have or coworkers or community members that I’ve shared space with,” she said. “They happen with an astounding regularity that I think contributes to many of us who see this happening feeling hopeless and ourselves feeling suicidal ideation.”
“The effect on me was very immediate. I felt that it dissuaded all of the suicidal ideation that I’ve been feeling for me personally.”
Both Page and Schulman read what they had shared at Kelly’s funeral before opening the floor to questions and a discussion.
The conversation that followed touched on many issues relating to suicidality and the queer community. Some audience members shared their own experiences with suicidal thoughts or actions.
Issues that came up many times included de-escalating conflict, conflict resolution, and the importance of solidarity within the queer community. Many attendees also spoke about conflict on the internet, the difficulty of being a leader in the queer community, and the impact of substances on suicidality.
The general response to the discussion was positive. One attendee, Carina, told The Daily she thought it was a very valuable conversation, and highlighted the importance of talking about these issues in small-scale situations like this event.
“These are literally life and death situations,” she said.
Speaking to The Daily, Lana, another attendee, said that for her, the event brought up thought-provoking ideas that she believes are important.
“These are literally life and death situations.”
“[The event] dealt with enormously complicated questions in a really relatable way,” she said. “It raises things I’ve been talking about with my friends for years without the vocabulary.”
In an interview with The Daily, Eli, a student at Concordia, highlighted how well the panel and discussion dealt with a potentially distressing situation.
“I was talking to people and they were saying that it was anxiety producing to come into this space, but then it was so healing,” they said. “There wasn’t any conflict, which was really nice, and everyone was listening to each other–that was just refreshing.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
