The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Collective holds movie screening for Trans Prisoner Day of Action and Solidarity
On January 22, the Prisoner Correspondence Project (PCP) raised awareness as part of the Trans Prisoners Day of Action and Solidarity.
Later that week, on January 26, PCP held an event at Café Ouvert which included screening a movie and reading from a zine written by a prisoner. This was the first year the day of solidarity has been held. The PCP aims to raise awareness around and give a voice to the challenges faced by trans prisoners, adopting an intersectional approach to incarceration and LGBTQ issues as a whole.
The PCP is a non-hierarchical, volunteer-run collective operating as a working group of the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) Concordia. The PCP’s main initiative is a pen pal program between LGBTQ prisoners and the broader community. It also provides a resource library which includes reading materials that address questions regarding coming out while in prison, gender transitioning, and legal aid concerns.
While some support programs do exist, the PCP aims to give voice to those who fall through the cracks. Its initiatives, such as the pen pal program, aim to connect the queer and trans community outside to those in prison, specifically connecting those imprisoned in the U.S. and Canada with people outside of prisons. The majority of pen-pal correspondents are from outside of the U.S..
In an interview with The Daily, Parker Benley, who is a member of the PCP, said that the purpose of the day of action and the movie screening was two-fold.
First, it served as a call for more pen pal program participants. Benley explained that currently there remains roughly 700 trans prisoners on the PCP’s waitlist looking to establish a correspondence. Secondly, the day of action aims to raise awareness on the issue and garner further donations to the cause.
As a result of finance issues – mainly due to the weakness of the Canadian dollar and their purchases of U.S. postage for their pen pals based in the U.S. – Benley said that the PCP will be launching a campaign for monthly donors in the next few weeks.
Benley was optimistic about the event’s impact, and was pleased to see a full house during the movie screening and reading of PCP inside member Catherine Lynn Quick’s zine, A Caged Bird Sings. The day ended with a collection of contributions and many new pen pal sign-ups.
Benley expressed hope that the movement will grow and continue to raise awareness of the harsh realities of imprisonment.
According to Benley the day of action sought to “raise awareness of the things that we can change to alleviate the harm [experienced by trans prisoners].” Concretely, this would focus on the currently lacking healthcare provisions. Benley expressed hope that the event would amplify the discussion around prisons themselves, remarking, “prisons aren’t safe for anyone.”
The PCP garners its main contributions from McGill’s and Concordia’s branches of QPIRG, as well as McGill’s Union for Gender Empowerment. While pleased with the level of campus support, Benley said that “more would be better.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Suggested improvements include rigorous attendance system
Race Project, a mandatory workshop for first-year students in McGill residences that addresses racism and colonialism, is in its first semester of full implementation. The workshop discusses white privilege and microaggressions, debunks the myth of reverse racism, and educates students on Canada’s colonial history.
Race Project is modelled on Rez Project, a similarly structured workshop about consent, gender, and sexuality that has been in effect since 2005. Rez Project has recently come under scrutiny for its white-centric focus, and Race Project was designed to complement the anti-oppression training by introducing discussion of issues of racism and colonialism.
In an interview with The Daily, Jenny Zhang, a second-year student and Race Project facilitator, explained that “since first-years come from a lot of different backgrounds, we’re trying to give everyone a base level of knowledge on these anti-oppression topics in order to hopefully make rez a safer space.”
Race Project workshops are approximately three hours long, and are led by two trained facilitators: one Black, Indigenous, or Person of Colour (BIPOC) facilitator, and one white facilitator.
“We’re trying to give everyone a base level of knowledge on these anti-oppression topics in order to hopefully make rez a safer space.”
Tristan*, a facilitator, told The Daily that students in certain faculties could complete their academic career at McGill without ever having a single conversation about race. As a result, he said, students may never address their own prejudice or lack of knowledge.
Tristan told The Daily that a floor fellow, who did not undergo Race Project training, shut down a Race Project workshop early because they thought that the facilitators were being “too aggressive.”
According to Tristan, the floor fellow felt that the content was being delivered in a “non-neutral” manner. This has led to accusations that certain floor fellows are too involved during the course of the workshop, hence not allowing students to honestly and safely discuss the topics.
“If you had attended the Race Project training, you would know that the content is not neutral. It’s explicitly expressed that the project is anti-colonialism, anti-racism,” Malika*, an Upper Rez floor fellow, told The Daily.
“The floor fellow shutting [the workshop] down is not a reflection on the project,” Malika continued, but rather reflects the different perspectives and levels of training of floor fellows.
“If you had attended the Race Project training, you would know that the content is not neutral.”
But the missteps were not solely on the part of some floor fellows. Another floor fellow, Rayna*, said that in another workshop students had used racial slurs as examples during the workshop, making other participants highly uncomfortable.
“There’s a part of the workshop where you’re supposed to use a diagram to show a visible outcome of racism, how racism occurs, and its systemic roots. You’re just supposed to write ‘racial slur’ as a visible outcome. People were writing actual racial slurs on the board,” Rayna explained.
Because Race Project is mandatory, facilitators must work with a wide variety of students with differing backgrounds, experiences, and levels of knowledge.
“You’ve got some students who can be really quiet and unwilling to participate, some who can be rather aggressively combative when they don’t agree with the things you’re saying, and some who really appreciate the workshop and learn a lot from it,” said Zhang.
“These are pretty emotionally intense subjects,” Zhang continued. “We talk about [the] history of residential schools [and] white privilege, so it’s pretty expected for students to express strong feelings. It’s our job as facilitators to keep discussions from getting too off track and/or becoming really triggering for those involved or in the group.”
“Racial diversity is as important as gender [and sexuality] diversity in the context of a university, as your questions can only come from your identity.”
“A huge red flag topic for us was the section that dealt with reverse racism and how it’s really not a thing,” said Zhang. “Even previously quieter students, who are generally white, would often start to argue that people can be racist against any race, including white people. It can be hard to get students to understand on the first try why historical power relations are still so deeply ingrained and relevant in the modern world and our current cultural context.”
In an interview with The Daily, Charmaine Nelson, a McGill Art History professor and currently the only female Black art history professor in Canada, also emphasized that it is essential to engage students in discussions of race and colonialism. Nelson said, “Racial diversity is as important as gender [and sexuality] diversity in the context of a university, as your questions can only come from your identity.”
“So the fact that I’m asking different questions than people who came before me is because I’m a Black woman of a certain identity group, who’s interested in getting certain answers,” Nelson continued.
“There’s been generations of white male scholars before me who haven’t asked certain questions because they’re not interested, for example, in the humanization of the American slave. It should be made clear to students that [having these discussions] should be a given. This is not an issue for only the Black, Indigenous students. White students can’t sit outside and think, ‘this isn’t about me,’” she concluded.
When asked what could be done to improve Race Project in the future, one common concern from floor fellows and facilitators alike was attendance.
“I think there should be a more rigorous attendance system, as not all floor fellows get 100 per cent attendance,” Rayna said. “Because Race Project is not technically part of a resident’s lease, we can’t force them to come, and yet the project is sold as mandatory. So maybe it should be incorporated into residency leases.”
“We have to get the conversation started somehow, and hopefully at least a handful of the students we teach Race Project to will be interested in learning more about these topics on their own,” Zhang said.
The Daily reached out to McGill Rez Life office but did not receive a response in time for publication.
*Names have been changed.
An earlier version of this article stated that Rez Project has been in effect since September 2013. In fact, Rez Project has been running since 2005. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AUS Council approves Memorandum of Agreement 
At the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Council meeting on January 27, documents were approved that could allow SNAX, the student-run shop on the ground floor of the Leacock building, to recommence selling sandwiches as early as this week. Councillors also approved a set of new electoral bylaws concerning the VP Finance position, and voted to endorse a “yes” vote in the referendum to increase the Students’ Society of McGill University’s (SSMU) non-opt-outable membership fee.
SNAX is regulated through a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between McGill and AUS. The previous MOA expired on May 1, 2015, but the sale of sandwiches had been banned since November 2014, as it technically contravened the MOA.
The administration had agreed informally to allow sandwiches to be sold, but reneged on its agreement for reasons that remain unclear. This sparked considerable backlash from students, who staged a sit-in in March 2015 to protest the sandwich ban and highlight the increasing lack of affordable food options on campus.
AUS has been negotiating with McGill since November 2014, hoping to renew the MOA and get sandwiches back on the menu at SNAX.
“Some plans in [the] past, which were to add [around] twenty seats to SNAX […] aren’t really possible anymore.”
Now, more than a year later, the negotiations have yielded results: two documents have been produced that could allow sandwich sales to resume as early as this week. The first, an updated MOA, will expire in April 2020. Except for a few minor adjustments, it is essentially the same as the previous one.
The second is a letter of permission from Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens, which would allow SNAX to sell pre-packaged food items, such as sandwiches, as long as their suppliers are legally registered and follow appropriate labelling procedure. It also stipulates that SNAX must be subject to random health and safety inspections, and may not create a seating area of any kind.
“This is a pretty thorny topic which we did have to compromise on,” President Jacob Greenspon said of the seating issue. “I don’t see why [the administration] would see that as a threat, but apparently they do. […] Some plans in [the] past, which were to add [around] twenty seats to SNAX […] aren’t really possible anymore.”
However, Greenspon also explained that the AUS negotiating team had obtained a number of concessions from the administration.
“The Deputy Provost won’t be able to come down and say ‘Oh, that looks a little dirty, SNAX has to shut down.’”
“Something we’ve got them to compromise [on] was that the only people that can be performing inspections for health and safety […] are inspectors who are […] legally registered, and qualified to be able to do those inspections, so the Deputy Provost won’t be able to come down and say ‘Oh, that looks a little dirty, SNAX has to shut down.’”
The letter of permission for food sales is strictly temporary, expiring in December 2016. If SNAX complies with its various conditions, however, the letter explains that it “may be extended at the University’s discretion on similar or modified conditions until the end of the MOA”.
A number of councillors expressed concern at the vague nature of this statement.
“It sounds like it’s at the University’s discretion, which means even if we do everything they say, they could hypothetically be like ‘just kidding, we’re not going to incorporate this into the MOA,’” said VP External Becky Goldberg.
“Legally, yes,” said Greenspon. “But […] if [we comply] with [these] conditions, after negotiating with us for 18 months, I think politically it would be very difficult for them to be restricting sandwich sales again, especially given the […] demonstrations […] that happened last year.”
After a substantial discussion, councillors voted unanimously to approve the MOA and the letter of permission. In an email to The Daily, Greenspon explained that he and VP Finance Mirza Ali Shakir will be meeting with Dyens and Dean of Arts Hudson Meadwell this week to officially ratify the documents, after which sandwich sales will resume as soon as possible.
Other business discussed at Wednesday’s meeting included a motion to amend electoral bylaws for VP Finance screening, which has been discussed for several months and approved by an AUS referendum, and a motion to endorse a “yes” vote in last week’s referendum concerning an increase in SSMU’s membership fee. The first was approved unanimously, while the second passed by an extremely narrow margin, with 13 votes for, 11 against, and 12 abstaining.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Upcoming elections reveal internal disputes
In 2012, The Daily investigated severe governance issues at the McGill Association of Continuing Education Students (MACES). The Daily has recently received information from inside sources alleging that these problems were never fully addressed, and that transparency remains a major point of contention within the association.
Recently, two MACES board members, VP Finance Ghassan Berro, and senator and non-voting member of McGill Board of Governors Nely Gaulea, resigned from their duties. As a result, MACES has called for early elections, the nomination period for which started on January 25, to fill these vacant positions.
In an email to The Daily, Zaher Agha, MACES VP Internal, speaking on behalf of the MACES board of directors, stated that Berro resigned because he felt he could no longer commit his time to MACES and Gaulea resigned “due to personal reasons that [the board was] not made aware of.”
When asked about the potential of continuing governance problems at MACES, Agha said, “MACES has been working hard to introduce a real change to the organization in order to improve services and increase transparency, therefore we had a plan that included major initiatives and reversals of previous decisions.”
In an interview with The Daily, a MACES insider, Leah*, emphasized that lack of transparency remains the major issue at MACES. According to her, the governance problems of 2012 have not been adequately addressed.
Leah provided an example of decision-making problems among the board members. According to her, in a meeting to decide whether to offer a Microsoft Excel course to students in the Fall or Winter semester, a majority of the board voted not to offer the course in the Fall semester.
However, MACES President Sean Murphy, who still holds the position, “was pushing for it, […] wanting to impress the school [and show] that he’s doing great stuff for students. [He was implying that] everyone on the board needs to vote for this, because the president will look bad if not,” Leah said.
“[He was implying that] everyone on the board needs to vote for this, because the president will look bad if not.”
Ultimately the board came to a compromise that the course would be offered in the Fall semester on the condition that sufficient students signed up for it within a week.
After a week, Murray was to inform the other members of the result, in accordance with MACES bylaws, but Leah said this did not happen.
“To this day, I don’t know […] if we had the number of registrations needed,” she said.
The Daily reached out to Murphy for a comment, but was not able to acquire one.
A MACES Bylaw Review Committee was formed in September. According to Jack*, a member of the committee who wished to remain anonymous, “As a group, I think we realized that the bylaws weren’t […] up to date, and they weren’t really comparable to [those of] other student associations.”
Leah brought up another problem with the bylaws, regarding the VP Internal’s mandate to “take, prepare, and circulate minutes of all such meetings.”
The MACES website has a section to post meeting minutes but it has not yet been set up. According to Agha, “minutes are being taken at every meeting and are held in the office as per the bylaws […and] are presented to the audit firm at every financial year.”
While the MACES bylaws do not stipulate how these minutes should be circulated, Leah maintains that as long as the meeting minutes are not posted on the website, students will be kept unaware of decisions that are being made.
“As a group, I think we realized that the bylaws weren’t […] up to date, and they weren’t really comparable to [those of] other student associations.”
Julia*, another MACES insider who wished to remain anonymous, added that MACES was “trying to increase the awareness among students,” but it is still the case that not all students are aware of the association, as communication remains a problem.
While Jack believes that the establishment of a committee to review the bylaws is a step in the right direction, he said that, so far, they have not rewritten the bylaws because of conflicts of interest with board members on the committee, as there were more board members than non-members on the committee.
Jack continued to explain that the conflict of interest was not an isolated instance, pointing to similar conflicts of interest. He gave an example of a committee meeting at which one member proposed auditing a document and hiring someone with special certifications to do so.
The member added that it made sense and “it was a great way to show that we are transparent. But he proposed right after that he be the one to do that, since he’s certified,” said Jack, noting the obvious conflict of interest.
With the upcoming elections, there is hope that MACES will increase its transparency and solve these issues. Agha believes that MACES has greatly improved since 2012, especially now that there is a plan in place, reversing previous decisions with major initiatives.
Such initiatives include re-launching the MACES website, creating a MACES Facebook page, revising the bylaws, creating Standard Operating Procedures documents, recreating the MACES Council, and initiating several new programs for students, including a MACES scholarship and bursary program.
In an email to The Daily, SSMU President Kareem Ibrahim said, “[MACES has] been great to work with and is making huge strides to improve. […] They’ve been trying to run a referendum to opt-in to Student Services for a while now and are making plans to do it this semester.” Unlike in 2012, MACES now has representatives at Senate and other committee meetings, as well.
“I really hope that there will be a change, but I don’t know how feasible that is.”
Ollivier Dyens, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) also told The Daily in an email, “We meet with MACES on a regular basis […] to address issues, challenges and projects.”
Leah said, “We cannot deny that there is always room for improvement, and as [with] any other entity there [are] always some challenges that arise, but […] we are genuinely concerned and are working hard to best represent those who have trusted us and elected us as representatives.”
With the recent resignations and three more board members finishing their terms this semester, elections will be very important for the association to move forward.
But Leah and Mark*, another inside source, both expressed concern for the future board members. “I really hope that there will be a change, but I don’t know how feasible that is,” Mark said.
*Names have been changed.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panel highlights resistance to implementing equitable hiring practices
On January 28, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) held a panel discussion on “Diversity in Academia,” following the release of a report entitled “Equity in the Hiring of McGill Academic Staff: An Investigation,” acquired by The Daily on January 24, which discussed concerns with the state of McGill’s employment equity.
In 2007, McGill Senate and Board of Governors ratified an Employment Equity Policy. Last May, the biennial review of the policy noted that since 2013 there has been “little change” in the proportional representation of “designated groups” within McGill faculty.
“Lack of commitment, formalized practice, and transparency in regards to employment equity at McGill.​”
The policy specifies six “designated groups”: Indigenous peoples, visible minorities, ethnic minorities whose mother tongue is neither English nor French, persons with disabilities, women, and persons of minority sexual orientations and gender identities.
The panel began with Carolin Huang, one of the SSMU Equitable Hiring Researchers who wrote the report along with Molly Korab, a former Daily editor. Huang described their findings, which included a “lack of commitment, formalized practice, and transparency in regards to employment equity at McGill​,” and a “lack of leadership from the upper administration on equity.”
The panel comprised of four McGill faculty members: Tara Flanagan, associate professor in the Department of Educational and Counselling Psychology; Susan Gaskin, professor in the Department of Civil Engineering; Zoua Vang, assistant professor in the Department of Sociology; and Adelle Blackett, professor in the Faculty of Law.
The panelists questioned McGill’s – and more generally Canadian and U.S. universities’ – commitment to diversity. “We say things like ‘diversity is good’ but I’m not sure to what extent the University really believes that we are not excellent if we are not diverse,” said Blackett.
“Since 2008, the percentage of Aboriginals and people with disabilities [who are McGill faculty] has actually declined,” explained Huang. Over the last eight years, the percentage of McGill faculty that identify as women has only increased by 1 per cent; the percentage that identify as ethnic minorities increased by 0.9 per cent, and the percentage that identify as visible minorities increased by 0.8 per cent.
[raw]
Please select a school and a category to see the available data!








[/raw]
McGill’s Employment Equity Policy states that “in its pursuit of employment equity it is understood that the University will not engage in reverse discrimination [or…] impose quotas.” Rather, its stated goal is “the enlargement of the pool of appropriately qualified candidates by encouraging applications from a broader range of persons.”
“We say things like ‘diversity is good’ but I’m not sure to what extent the University really believes that we are not excellent if we are not diverse.”
“There’s a misperception that the pool of qualified minority candidates is just not there – that there are maybe one or two qualified minority faculty but then the rest of them are subpar,” countered Vang. “I think because of that misconception, university administrators and hiring committees go on with their ‘business as usual’ mentality and there isn’t effort to go out there and to recruit talented minority faculty.”
Further, Vang noted that “there is this misperception that you can’t have racial diversity among faculty and still commit to academic excellence. And this idea that the two are incompatible is based on stereotypes that minority faculty are less qualified than white faculty,” she explained.
Both before and after being hired, racialized candidates’ qualifications are viewed with “greater scrutiny and suspicion” by administrators, colleagues, and students than those of their white counterparts, Vang explained.
Blackett pointed to the links between the lack of diversity in faculty and the lack of academic space given to topics such as race, disability, and Indigeneity. “The ‘designated groups’ become measures of underinclusion, but also become measures of intellectual erasure,” she explained.
Flanagan noted that McGill does not have a disability studies department, and as a result, McGill fails to “legitimize the experience and the scholarship around disability, as they do at other universities.”
“There exists the resistance to challenging a canon that we assume captures the highest level of academic expression, but that might actually be built on a really narrow range of expertise,” Blackett added.
“The more I talk about these issues, the more I’m silenced, and the more I get a reputation as the ‘angry Asian woman with a chip on her shoulder.'”
Huang and Korab’s report notes that ​“equity at McGill has largely focused on women (and by proxy, white women) as opposed to other identity categories.” This lack of academic diversity, the report said, “hinders creating a safe space for members of minority groups.”
“The more I talk about these issues, the more I’m silenced, and the more I get a reputation as the ‘angry Asian woman with a chip on her shoulder,’” said Vang. “With diversity you have the chance to change and transform these cultures of silence, these cultures of denial.”
Huang explained that while conducting interviews for the report, she found “no one has a clear idea of their role in the entire implementation of the employment equity process. […] There’s no documents that actually show how these practices are implemented at the university.”
“In comparison to other universities [in Canada…] McGill doesn’t have any particular programs or even an official equity office apart from the SEDE [Social Equity and Diversity in Education] office, which doesn’t actually have the power to influence upper administration decision-making,” Huang added.
“In the discussion in general it seemed like we were conflating diversity with anti-discrimination.”
“I think we need to be forced out of our comfort zone,” said Gaskin. “It could come from a strong leader at the top of the administration who says ‘this is my priority and this is what is going to happen.’”
A Cognitive Science student, who attended the panel and preferred to remain anonymous, told The Daily that they felt the panelists and the University failed to clearly distinguish between affirmative action and more halfhearted hiring practices that do not account for differences.
“I find I have a lot of questions as to the approaches that are taken [to] establish diversity, and also in the discussion in general it seemed like we were conflating diversity with anti-discrimination. I see those as separate questions which both have value – but without defining the values explicitly and by conflating the two, it can stunt progress,” the student said.
Blackett criticized the fact that the University needed encouragement from outside forces before it acted upon issues regarding equity.
[raw]
Select a category to see the data available from each university






[/raw]
For instance, in 2013, Woo Jin Edward Lee, doctoral student and a course lecturer at the McGill School of Social Work, filed a human rights complaint against the University, accusing the school of systemic racism in its hiring practices.
Later, in March 2015, another human rights complaint was filed against the University, this time by an employee in McGill’s Faculty of Medicine who was allegedly fired “without due notice or cause,” and had claimed ethnic discrimination and related psychological harassment.
“The inability to reflect internally the type of broader open society that we want to have externally is really a terrible predicament of academic institutions.”
“Internal to institutions, we are very jealous of our academic freedom, and rightly so, but that makes it all the more incumbent on academic institutions to take the challenge of diversity seriously and to take leadership on it, rather than to wait for external bodies like human rights tribunals to tell the University that it hasn’t actually been living up to its requirements,” said Blackett.
“The inability to reflect internally the type of broader open society that we want to have externally is really a terrible predicament of academic institutions,” Blackett emphasized. “Taking seriously the challenge of inclusion is not just for the betterment of the universities, but it’s part and parcel of our responsibility to society at large.”
 
The employment equity data for the various universities was collected from the following linked sources: McGill University, Queen’s University, Dalhousie University, York University, University of Windsor, Western University.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
