The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Elections SSMU fails service reviews
On December 3, 2015 the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Services Review Committee released a report to the SSMU Legislative Council revealing that Elections SSMU, First Year Council (FYC), McGill International Students Network, Organic Campus, Players’ Theatre, and Savoy Society failed their service reviews.
Another five services (Black Students’ Network, Nightline, Plate Club, Queer McGill, Union for Gender Empowerment) passed service reviews with reservations. The remaining nine services passed the review.
According to the report, in order to be considered a service, a group must offer “resources, support, referral, awareness, or education to members of [SSMU …] and their operations must fall into at least two of these five categories.”
In an email to The Daily, SSMU VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik explained why the Committee chose to review all twenty services, when it is only mandated to review five per semester.
“Resources, support, referral, awareness, or education to members of [SSMU …] and their operations must fall into at least two of these five categories.”
“Service reviews have not been conducted since 2011, and many services have no records of being reviewed at all in the past ten years,” Bialik said.
This, Bialik continued, contributed strongly to the large number of services that failed or passed with reservations, adding that it “certainly indicates that the service review process was well overdue.”
The Committee’s report further provided recommendations to each service that failed or passed with reservations. According to Bialik, “nearly all of the services who failed their service review did so because their operations were incompatible with the definition of a service, not because those services were failing at what they do. […] The fact that the majority of the failures were due to incompatibilities with the services structure indicates that our services structure is in need of an overhaul.”
“Certainly indicates that the service review process was well overdue.”
This structure has undergone little review since its implementation. Bialik explained that when “services” as an affiliation status was created, SSMU had “interest groups” (groups of people united by an interest) and “functional groups” (groups of people that perform a specific function). These functional groups became services, “despite the fact that not all of them were necessarily service providers.” This incompatibility was never resolved.
The Committee has determined that Elections SSMU “only fulfills the resources pillar through their rentals of the online voting software to other student groups,” and therefore, does not meet the minimum of two criteria required to maintain service status.
Consequently, the Committee recommended that the Ad-Hoc Electoral Reform Committee remove Elections SSMU from the SSMU structure and make it into an independent body.
“It’s important that Elections SSMU be entirely politically neutral, but placing them under any executive with the knowledge that all executive portfolios are inherently political in some way, detracts from that neutrality,” Bialik said.
Luke Steverango, a U2 Mathematics student, agreed with Bialik that Elections SSMU should be politically neutral. When asked how services such as Elections SSMU could better represent students, he emphasized communication as a problem.
“It’s important that Elections SSMU be entirely politically neutral, but placing them under any executive with the knowledge that all executive portfolios are inherently political in some way, detracts from that neutrality.”
Steverango said, “If [Elections SSMU] actually talked to students about what they’re voting for, why they’re voting, that would be better, because SSMU has turned into more of a laughing stock, which you can see when looking at voter turnout.”
Similarly, a U2 Psychology student who wished to remain anonymous agreed that services, particularly Elections SSMU, need to be reorganized.
In an interview with The Daily, the student stated, “Honestly, I think SSMU should just be taken out and we should start with a whole new system, because I feel that all the resources they have to get the information out there are being used currently – but it’s not enough.”
“Honestly, I think SSMU should just be taken out and we should start with a whole new system.”
The Committee made similar recommendations for other services, including the FYC. It recommended that the “First Year Council make an effort to focus more on direct resource provision and referrals” and that SSMU Council consider an alternative to service status. Likewise, the Committee found that Players’ Theatre and Savoy Society failed to meet the definition of a service, and “must work to differentiate their operation from other performing arts groups on campus.”
The Daily reached out for a comment from the implicated services, however only Savoy Society responded, saying that they “do not want to make a comment until they meet with SSMU.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Reclaiming rights to use McGill name for clubs among priorities.
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) is set to begin negotiations with the McGill administration over the renewal of their Memorandum of Agreement (MoA), a binding document outlining the legal relationship between SSMU and the University.
The MoA is renewed every five years, and the current one is set to expire on May 31, 2016.
This year, for the first time, the VP Finance and Operations is replacing the President in negotiations with the University. Faced with an increased workload following the resignation of both the VP Internal and the General Manager, President Kareem Ibrahim delegated the task of negotiating the MoA to VP Finance and Operations Zacheriah Houston, who will be in charge of negotiations alongside VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke.
“It makes a lot of sense for the VP Finance [and Operations] to be involved, because so much of the MoA is financial,” Houston told The Daily. “A lot of it has to do with how our student fees are dispersed, what fees we pay to McGill and what services we receive in return. The VP Finance [and Operations] has to be very familiar with the MoA.”
“It makes a lot of sense for the VP Finance [and Operations] to be involved, because so much of the MoA is financial.”
In 2011, 132 student clubs underwent name changes as per a controversial clause introduced in the MoA in the very last round of negotiations that restricted student groups’ right to use the McGill name.
Josh Redel, who was the President of the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) during the negotiations in 2011, was disappointed over what he perceived as a lack of student consultation on the part of the executives. In an interview with The Daily, he had said at the time, “Nobody knew it was going to SSMU Council. […] No one knew. Clubs didn’t even know.” The agenda of the Council meeting where the MoA was discussed was not widely publicized.
Asked whether there would be more transparency this year, Ibrahim said that executives are “definitely hoping to involve students in the process.”
“Nobody knew it was going to SSMU Council.”
“We definitely want students to know what we will be negotiating in favour of,” Ibrahim added, despite the fact that negotiations are typically confidential, as per the preference of the University.
Since 2011, many more clubs have been forced to change their names. VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik said that over the last year and a half, clubs have been updating their constitutions only to realize their names were incorrect.
“[This] has been causing a number of issues for all of the clubs for their social media presence, their web presence, and what they’re putting on their posters,” said Bialik.
“There does not seem to be a whole lot of rhyme or reason to how that happened or how these categories were determined or why they differ.”
McGill is actually “cracking down,” says Bialik, on clubs that are not meeting the rules set out in the last MoA. Certain clubs have received requests from the University to change their logo – particularly those using the McGill Martlet or crest. As well, many clubs have been forced to add “McGill Students for” at the beginning of their name. Athletics groups are generally not allowed to use the McGill name, except in certain circumstances.
“There are varying levels of strictness on the different clubs which seem relatively arbitrary,” Bialik added. “There does not seem to be a whole lot of rhyme or reason to how that happened or how these categories were determined or why they differ. It’s inconsistently applied among the groups, as well, which is a big grievance the clubs have.”
Last year’s SSMU President Courtney Ayukawa attempted to open negotiations with the University a year early to ensure they would be resolved within a reasonable timeframe, but the University was unwilling to open the discussion early. At the time, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens had told The Daily, “That’s why we sign agreements – so we don’t re-open them every year.”
According to Houston, current negotiations will focus on the restrictions placed on clubs and SSMU’s operations. Houston cited the example of the University limiting SSMU’s ability to cater on campus.
Rourke and Houston communicated their demands to the University in November, but have yet to receive a response. However, Houston seems hopeful that their demands will be met by the University and that overall negotiations will be finalized before the end of the semester.
“We’d like [to not] have to pass on negotiations to the next execs,” Houston said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU supports campaign despite paying employees below $15 per hour
Campus mobilization is wrapping up for the “15 and Fair McGill” campaign, which seeks to implement a $15 per hour minimum wage for all employees of McGill or a McGill organization by May 1, 2018. However, one of the main supporters of the campaign, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), does not ensure a $15 per hour minimum wage to its own employees.
In Quebec, the minimum wage currently stands at $10.55 per hour. The goal wage of $15 is based on a study by the left-wing think tank Institut de recherche et d’informations socio-économiques (IRIS) that calculated the wage necessary for workers in Montreal to meet their basic needs, accounting for prices of necessities like rent and food. The campaign proposes a three-year timeline that would increase wages across campus in increments of about $1.80 per year.
“If you go to work-study job postings […] and just look at the amount of money [students] are being paid, it’s really low,” said Sean Cory, president of the Association of McGill University Research Employees (AMURE), one of the five participating McGill unions. “The students are being exploited,” added Cory.
In May 2015, the University was accused of the “casualization” of its labour force – replacing highly paid positions that include job security and benefits with minimum-wage positions that involve unpredictable or part-time hours and no benefits. McGill’s justification is the provincial government’s budget cuts to education. The University, however, declared a $4.3 million surplus in its 2014-15 fiscal budget.
“The students are being exploited.”
“To increase salaries at the lower end of the scale is not that much money, because [minimum wage workers are] not paid much to begin with. But it makes a huge difference on their lives,” Cory said.
“15 and Fair McGill” consists of a coalition of five McGill labour unions, as well as Midnight Kitchen, QPIRG-McGill and SSMU. Emily Boytinck, SSMU VP External, has been attending the “15 and Fair McGill” meetings as an “informal” member of the coalition. However, Boytinck told The Daily that despite supporting the campaign, SSMU only pays most of its student staff between $12 and $13 per hour.
“Obviously [SSMU is] coming from a very different position,” said Boytinck. “Instead of being a union that has the ability to fight for higher wages, we are managers that have the ability to increase our wages.”
“To put it in context, this year we’ve eliminated some permanent staff positions – our budget is very, very tight. And so to increase to $15 per hour right now would be extremely irresponsible for the staff that we have right now, with the budget that we currently have adopted,” said Boytinck. “I don’t want to say it’s not an option, but to do it with our current operating budget would be incredibly difficult.”
Boytinck maintained that it was nonetheless important for SSMU to voice its support for the campaign, even though she conceded that “at this point we’re still super hypocritical.”
“The increase of casualization on campus affects students, and it affects the services that students get, and it affects the overall culture of our campus,” Boytinck continued. “To have the student union be silent on this issue would be really unfortunate to the campaign.”
“I don’t want to say it’s not an option, but to do it with our current operating budget would be incredibly difficult.”
A $15 minimum hourly wage would mean that minimum-wage employees would only have to work two-thirds of the time they currently do to earn the same income, meaning that “they can put that energy and that time that’s freed up into their lives – their schoolwork, or their families, their social environment,” said Cory.
But some SSMU student employees are comfortable with their current wages. “There’s a lot of jobs that aren’t paid $15 and absolutely should be – but I also don’t necessarily think that it needs to be the standard,” said Emily Bilton, an employee at Gerts, in an interview with The Daily. “Especially at a place like SSMU where it’s giving opportunity for students who wouldn’t necessarily get a job outside, like a lot of anglophones.”
“I think the fact that we’re getting paid pretty comfortably above minimum wage in a [student union] that works completely around our schedules is a really great thing to start with,” Bilton continued.
Asked about whether it hinders the campaign to have support from a student union that pays workers below $15 per hour, Cory responded, “A bit. I think if you can show that you yourselves have made that effort and show you’re leading by example, it would help.”
“It might end up being that SSMU has to increase their fees in order to pay for this. The student population would have to decide if they want to do this,” commented Cory. “Or SSMU would have to decide if they want to reorganize, or to change their pay structure.”
“We would hope that by the end of this executive mandate, they have a timeline toward that goal, rather than a new executive coming in and having to start over,” he continued.
“We’re not trying to shove it under the rug. […] We are actively looking into it,” Boytinck emphasized.
According to the “15 and Fair McGill” website, the fight for a $15 per hour minimum wage began in the New York City fast food industry in 2012, and spread rapidly to other low-wage industries. Over the last two years, the cities of Seattle, San Francisco, and Los Angeles have responded to mounting union pressure and protests by passing legislation to raise their minimum wages to $15 per hour. In May 2015, the newly-elected provincial New Democratic Party (NDP) made Alberta the first Canadian province to plan to raise the minimum wage to $15 per hour by 2018.
“We won’t have to fight against McGill if Montreal [or Quebec] as a whole decides to impose a $15 minimum wage.”
The fight for a higher minimum wage has long been connected to a goal of decreasing inequality on many fronts, since women and racial minorities are overrepresented among minimum wage workers.
“When we started there was no one else in Montreal that we could see that was working on this,” Cory said. “Now it’s starting to pop up more, and […] others in Montreal are getting involved.”
Cory said that the movement has so far focused on student mobilization, but the unions will be raising the issue at Senate and Board of Governors meetings, and during their negotiations with the University.
Cory added that the movement’s impact may extend beyond McGill’s campus. “We won’t have to fight against McGill if Montreal [or Quebec] as a whole decides to impose a $15 minimum wage.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
