The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council also hears reports from Christopher Manfredi and Ollivier Dyens
On Wednesday, November 16, the Post-Graduate Students Society (PGSS) met for its monthly Council meeting. Councilors passed two motions, one regarding support for the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) bargaining priorities, and another to create the PGSS Member Services Committee. Council also heard several presentations, as well as executive reports.
Provost and Vice-Principal (Academic) Christopher Manfredi came to Council and made himself available to questions from any graduate students.
“Could you speak a bit about the recent course lecturers’ union and collective agreement that the University entered […], particularly the exclusion rate, or percentage of courses that can be excluded, and for those who are concerned about graduate students having an opportunity to teach their own course?” asked PGSS Academic Affairs Officer Nicholas Dunn.
A year ago, course lecturers at McGill unionized to form the McGill Course Lecturers and Instructors Union (MCLIU). Their collective agreement included clauses regarding the posting of teaching opportunities as course lecturers, as well as a point system to determine seniority amongst lecturers.
More importantly, it also included a “reserve clause,” which gave the University the right to assign up to 15 per cent of the courses taught by course lecturers to individuals and bypass the traditional posting and seniority rules. Those postings could go either to graduate students, professionals, or other academics.
“The way we did it this year,” answered Manfredi, “it is that we asked [McGill faculty deans] to give us an estimate of how many of those exclusions they needed. Not [surprisingly], the number they asked for exceeded the number that we had available, so we had to make some decisions about how to allocate [those posts].”
Manfredi acknowledged the collective agreement was still in its first year, and required fine tuning, but said that this is normal, and his office had been in contact with McGill faculty deans to revise certain parts of the agreement in the coming year.
Deputy Provost, Student Life and Learning (DPSLL) Ollivier Dyens also came to Council, where he presented last year’s (Fiscal Year 2016) finalized budget with official numbers.
Dyens explained various parts of the budget to Council, including the expected 1.5 per cent rise in tuition for students, which is a standard part of his presentation, but also discussed the sales and services portion of the budget.
“Last year, there was a lot of talk that we cut student services,” said Dyens, “and we have not cut [any]. The [sales and services] budget has actually increased, albeit not as much as we would like to see.”
“Salaries are increasing,” he continued, “a little because we’re hiring more people, but mostly because we have a salary policy at the University, and the University is committed to increasing salaries by a certain amount [as a result of collective agreements].”
Dyens spent extra time discussing the University’s ‘overhead’ budget, which has caused some controversy in past years: it was a major issue during the 2012 Quebec student protests, when the province saw extensive cuts across universities.
Overhead charges essentially mean the University bills student-fee funded units for central administrative services, which are automatically provided through the operating budget.
The University has justified this in the past by saying that they cannot pay for these administrative services themselves without it “affecting other services,” like social or health services.
Currently, the University charges approximately half a million dollars in overhead fees to McGill students; it was originally projected that these charges would constitute five per cent of the University’s yearly budget.
“Five per cent for overhead isn’t a huge amount,” argued Dyens. “Another university will charge ten per cent, 15 per cent. […] It’s not great news, but it’s not excessive either.”
“The good thing here is that [this year] it only went from three to four per cent,” he continued, “and the projection [was] that overhead would go to five per cent next year, but it seems that things are getting better.”
AMUSE has been engaged in bargaining with the administration for a new collective agreement since November 10. After having gone on strike from October 29 to November 2, a motion was brought forward for PGSS to support AMUSE’s bargaining priorities, which include priority hiring for jobs employees have already undertaken, accurate job descriptions, seniority and benefits for casual workers, and a $15 minimum wage.
“We urge the administration to conclude an agreement with AMUSE in an equitable manner consistent with their demands,” the motion reads. “We support the union’s efforts to achieve a living wage and to receive respect in line with their immense contributions to the university.”
The motion passed unanimously.
A previous version of this article stated that Provost Manfredi has been in contact with MCLIU regarding exemptions in the reserve clause. In fact, he’s been in contact with McGill faculty deans. The Daily regrets the error. 
A previous version of this article also said that Manfredi had been in contact with MCLIU to revise certain parts of the agreement in the coming year. In fact, he’s been in contact with McGill faculty deans. The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
 IJV McGill holds first event on the creation of a modern Jewish nation
Independent Jewish Voices (IJV)’s McGill chapter hosted their first lecture event on Monday, November 14. The club invited Yakov M. Rabkin, professor of history at l’Université de Montréal, to talk about his book “What is Modern Israel?” which was released earlier this year.
Rabkin began his talk by explaining the relationship between Zionism, anti-Zionism, and anti-Semitism. In his book, he traces the birth of Zionism, which emerged at the end of the 19th century as a reaction to several instances of anti-Jewish violence in Europe and the onset of writings by German intellectuals such as Theodor Herzl.
He discussed the exile and massive migration of Jews from Central and Eastern Europe due to religious and political discrimination that led to a forced settlement in Palestine.
“There is a very important transition that happened with the concept of anti-Semitism,” explained Rabkin. “A hundred years ago, if you thought Jews belonged to a different state, you were an anti-Semite, but now if you deny it, then you are an anti-Semite.”
He said he believes it is important to distinguish between racial and religious anti-Semitism in order to better understand the frameworks in which Israeli sentiment function.
“Religious anti-Semitism offers a way out by means of conversion,” he explained, “however, racial anti-Semitism offers no escape as such.”
This distinction ultimately postulates the existence of a Jewish race and a nation-state propagated within a colonial setting , according to Rabkin.
In his book, Rabkin also discusses the role of Soviet Jews in constituting the Jewish nationality.
“The Soviet Jews [when they settled in Palestine] took with them not only Russian songs and Russian culture, but they took with them the concept that the world hates us,” he said.
He went on to shed light on the influence of Jerusalem-based think tanks that have been working for several decades to make Israel central to Jewish identity.
“This agenda has succeeded for a large majority of secular Jews through programs like birthright,” he said. “Israel has become a residual identity for Jews even if they have never been to Israel or don’t speak a word of Hebrew.”
He concluded his talk by analyzing why organizations like IJV disturb Zionist voices.
“People who equate Zionism to Judaism become very sensitive to criticism since religion is supposed to be private,” Rabkin explained. “The concept of anti-Semitism has become a tool by which any sort of Zionist criticism is silenced, but criticism of Israel does not necessarily have to be anti-Semitic.”
The talk was followed by a question and answer period where several students, professors, and members of the Montreal community shared their experiences of going to Jewish day school, practicing Judaism, and what Zionism means in the context of Judaism as a religion.
In an interview with The Daily, the AUS Equity Commissioner who attended the event, spoke about the importance of solidarity with pro-Palestine Jewish voices on campus.
“I came here because solidarity is important to me, and I know that there are wonderful, wonderful Jewish people on campus that are pro-Palestine,” he said. “So I’m just here to show my support and solidarity and because IJV is new to McGill, so I want to be part of that.”
A co-founder of IJV McGill, Anna, spoke to The Daily about her hope of establishing a community of diverse Jewish voices on campus through their group.
“Events like this […] speak to Jewish voices that otherwise don’t have a place to go or to feel like their story is being validated,” she said. “There is clearly an empty seat in the Jewish auditorium that is now being filled.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Concordia event discusses the “true impact of punishment”
On Wednesday, November 16, approximately thirty people gathered at L’Artere Coop at a talk called “What is the true impact of punishment?” The goal of the event, according to the Facebook page, was to “consider the impact of a punishment approach and the sorts of community-based and dialog-based alternatives that some would propose to it,” and question whether incarceration truly results in perpetrators changing their ways.
The event was organised by the University of the Streets Cafe, “which aims to create welcoming spaces where diverse groups of citizens can gather to share their unique experiences and perspectives.” The Cafe is affiliated with the Office of Community Engagement at Concordia.
“Every time it’s a different theme and we try to keep them as informal as possible,” said Emma Harake, one of the University of Streets Cafe volunteers, describing the program’s discussions. “We always have a guest or two guests, depending on the topic, and someone to moderate the talk. […] Every theme also attracts different people, different age groups, different communities in the city which is very interesting to see.”
The guests that night included Jean-Marc Bougie, who was incarcerated for four years for “an economic crime,” and is now involved in his community as a meal delivery volunteer and “assists isolated and socially excluded individuals in filing tax forms and similar documents,” as well as Marie Beemans, a supporter of prisoners’ rights and an advocate for prison reform.
Between 1983 and 1986, Beemans coordinated the national campaign against the return of the death penalty. For more than twenty years, she has opened her home to federal prisoners in transition.
Bougie thinks that the Canadian penal system is still based on the concept of ‘an eye for an eye.’
‘‘‘An eye for an eye’ is engrained in our nature as humans,” said Bougie. “It flows in our bodies, it flows in our culture, it flows from our religion.”
However, Bougie went beyond that, saying that Canada’s penal system is still deeply flawed and needs to be reformed, especially in regards to incarceration and actual rehabilitation.
“Who here would go to a hospital where there is a big sign out front that says ‘50 per cent of you are going to get worse’?” he asked. “When you send someone to the penitentiary, it’s the same thing. The recidivism rate in Canada and the United States varies […] between 40 and 62 per cent.”
Beemans further raised concerns about the state’s role in setting an example for its citizens regarding punishment.
‘‘‘An eye for an eye’ is engrained in our nature as humans.”
“Where there is the death penalty, there is a higher homicide rate,” she explained, “because the citizen uses the same excuse as the state: ‘If the state can get rid of somebody because they are unacceptable, so can an individual.’”
Beemans explained that the same logic can be used for lesser crimes, saying that where a state seeks vengeance against its citizens, the individual feels more comfortable in fulfilling personal vendettas.
“Who here would go to a hospital where there is a big sign out front that says ‘50 per cent of you are going to get worse’?” When you send someone to the penitentiary, it’s the same thing.”
Beemans continued with additional criticism of the system, specifically with regards to its failure to provide a constructive environment where criminals can reform: “You take somebody who has acted irresponsibly, and you put them in a situation where you take away all the responsibility: what time he gets up in the morning, what time he eats […] that’s reinforcing behaviour.”
As the night went on, attendees were invited to identify reasons why the current penal system often fails inmates.
“We hear of models that are more like [the system in Norway] that seem to work better,” said one attendee named Fiona. “The rates of recidivism are much lower than the ones in North America.”
“What’s the motivation for governments not to do it this way?” she continued. “[It’s because] in the U.S. a lot of these prisons are privatized, so there is a profit motive to maintain punishment as the method for attempted reformation.”
Another attendee named Laura argued that the people who maintain the current penal system have no real interest in rehabilitation.
“There’s a very real struggle for power, and struggle for control over people that society deems ‘lower-class’” she said. “They’re trying to keep that [hierarchical] system in place, especially if you look at the disproportionate inmate representation in prison, like people of colour and Indigenous folks.”
“Trying to integrate them back into society is not their intention; their intention is to keep them outside of society,” she concluded.
Bougie concurred with the idea that prisons oftentimes are used as tools to maintain racial and economic hierarchies, based on his own experiences in prison.
“Most of the people knew two or three guys in the pen [prison] when they came in,” he recalled. “Where did they first meet? Shawbridge, St. Viateur [youth detention centers].”
“They’re trying to keep that [hierarchical] system in place, especially if you look at the disproportionate inmate representation in prison, like people of colour and Indigenous folks.”
“They knew each other in the juvenile system,” he continued. “When they hit eighteen, they met up at Bordeaux [another correctional facility], and when they graduated from there, they met each other in the pen. They were like family.”
Bougie brought this up to show that this is just one example of a societal pattern in which the incarcerated become lifelong members of communities considered “outcast” by society: the majority of incarcerated individuals live in a world where everyone has either been directly or indirectly affected by the penal system.
Bougie suggested that society is failing these communities by continually putting them in situations that deny their individual worth and the worth of their peers.
“When they hit eighteen, they met up at Bordeaux [another correctional facility], and when they graduated from there, they met each other in the pen. They were like family.”
The speakers and attendees focused their discussion on compassion as a possible solution the issue of incarceration in Canada.
One attendee referenced a study conducted in Australia that illustrated the power of sympathetic understanding in the penal system.
“[The general public] thinks that sentences are too lenient and people should be punished more, […] [but this study] discussed with [individual] jurors the cases that they had sat in and made decisions on,” the attendee said.
“In those cases, [jurors] were privy to […] all of the nuances and circumstances [of the crime, and] they thought […] the sentence was fine.”
The attendee said this illustrates how hard it is to be sympathetic toward a criminal you know nothing about: if you see that person as a human being, you might be able to recognize the potential cruelty of their punishment.
Near the end of the night’s discussion, Beemans shared a personal story: “Years ago I used to go to Macaza, which is a penitentiary for prisoners you can’t put in other prisons,” she said. “Many of the guys that are there have been in [for] thirty, forty years.
“[The general public] thinks that sentences are too lenient and people should be punished more, […] [but this study] discussed with [individual] jurors the cases that they had sat in and made decisions on.”
“There’s 270 prisoners and never more than 15 have visits,” she continued. “So I said I’ll bring a busload of volunteers and I’ll fill the chapel […] and we can fill it with guys who never have a visit.”
“These are guys who have committed the type of crime that you say is horrifying,” she pointed out. “Most of them [have] been in the system since they were little kids. Most of them will never get out.”
However, Beemans said this doesn’t mean they weren’t capable of an emotional connection.
“Most of them [have] been in the system since they were little kids. Most of them will never get out.”
“They’re still human beings and we’re their only contact with the outside world. And tears fall, you see tears at the end of [our visit],” she said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
 Attendees discuss need for solidarity and systemic change
On Thursday, November 17, around 120 students gathered at the Shatner Building in the Madeleine Parent room for an event called “How can we defeat Trump?” The event was organized by the group Socialist Fightback at Concordia and McGill, which aimed to bring people together with the shared goal of “organiz[ing] ourselves to fight back against [Donald Trump].”
Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign has received international coverage, with many denouncing his proposed policies, which include building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, a temporary ban on Muslims immigrating to the United States, and derogatory comments against women, people of colour, people with disabilities, Mexicans, Muslims, and others. His election as U.S. president was shocking to many, and has resulted in a number of domestic and global protests against growing nationalism, xenophobia, and protectionism.
The event, which marked the highest turnout for Socialist Fightback at McGill and Concordia, consisted of a talk given by Joel Bergman, an organizer and member of Socialist Fightback for over ten years, that was accompanied by a concurrent French translation. An open floor discussion amongst the attendees followed.
“How did Donald Trump win the election? How did this racist, sexist, misogynist, lying billionaire become the President of the most powerful country in the history of the world? And how were all of the analysts so wrong?” Bergman asked the crowd. “Everyone said ‘this is impossible, it will never happen, he’s a joke’ […] It wasn’t just one or two stupid analysts; this was across the board. This was not an ordinary election, and we are not living in ordinary times.”
“Obviously, everyone was surprised, even I was somewhat surprised by the Trump victory” Bergman said in an interview with The Daily. “If you look at what happened in Britain, with this vote to leave the E.U. [European Union], [it’s] a very similar phenomenon, and if you look at what’s happening all over Europe, […] we are seeing a rise in political polarization to the right and to the left.”
“This was not an ordinary election, and we are not living in ordinary times.”
Bergman has previously spoke to The Daily about the “crisis of capitalism,” but following the results of this election, he seemed even more convinced that now is the time for a fundamental change in the system.
“This is the least popular president in the history of the country, and he hasn’t even been inaugurated yet,” he said.
“I think that the only way to fight this sort of division that [Trump] uses, his language that he uses [which] is very similar to scapegoating, […] is with solidarity,” Kian Kenyon-Dean, a member of Socialist Fightback, told The Daily. “You can’t fight capitalism with capitalism, you can’t fight fire with fire; you fight fire with water. You fight division with solidarity, [and] you fight capitalism with socialism.”
Kenyon-Dean went on to explain that in many ways, Trump’s election seems to have been a wake-up call for people.
“This is the least popular president in the history of the country, and he hasn’t even been inaugurated yet.”
“The fact is that Trump getting elected has radicalized people to the left and to the right, and we can’t just sit around and mope,” he explained. “It may be a cliche, [but] it’s a good one: it’s a famous quote, ‘don’t mourn, organize,’ and that’s what we need to do now. We need to present an actual alternative.”
Speaking to The Daily, Julien Arseneau, a member of Fightback and one of the event’s organizers, said: “We can’t ignore the background of economic collapse in the U.S.. In 2008 the big banks were saved when hundreds of billions of dollars were pumped into the banking system […] but interestingly when the poor Americans lose their houses, lose their jobs, nobody is there to help them and they [the government] say ‘we don’t have money,’ but then [they] have $700 billion for the banks.”
“You fight division with solidarity, [and] you fight capitalism with socialism.”
“I think Americans were desperately seeking an alternative to the status quo, and unfortunately in this election, the only seemingly different thing from the status quo was Donald Trump,” Arseneau added.
This was a common theme amongst the attendees, as the consensus seemed to be that it was Americans’ frustration with the system that led to their new president-elect. Many attendees also felt the opposition to Trump needed to stop labeling his supporters as racist or misogynist, and rather call them what they are: people who feel frustrated and disenfranchised.
However, discussion showed that there was no unanimous agreement on how to approach resisting president-elect Trump.
One attendee, who did not identify himself, spoke on the issue of systemic change: “We are a system, and a system cannot change if there is resistance.”
“Resistance is what we are doing, in our efforts to dismantle Trump and his claim to the presidency and not accepting it, is resistance on our part. Therefore, instead of fighting to bring him down, why don’t we try to come up with solutions? Why don’t we force legislation to be passed?” he asked the crowd.
“I think Americans were desperately seeking an alternative to the status quo, and unfortunately in this election, the only seemingly different thing from the status quo was Donald Trump.”
“Just protesting, talking, and complaining doesn’t offer a solution, and in fact it might appear to make him seem the better person. It makes him become the victim of something that is considered negative in society,” he continued.
“I am not saying it is wrong to protest, I am just saying we need to have a smart approach,” he added.
Though his idea was not shared by all in the room, as the general opinion called for the complete removal of the capitalist system, the point that he made seemed to hit home.
“Therefore, instead of fighting to bring him down, why don’t we try to come up with solutions? Why don’t we force legislation to be passed?”
“We need more than just protests, we need to actually put forward something positive that we do want,” Bergman told The Daily. “Eventually, with no direction, people get tired and go home, so there needs to be a real movement.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Sustainability Projects Fund also discussed
On Thursday, November 17, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council met to discuss two motions that were originally put forward at the Fall General Assembly (GA), and hear two presentations, one on what McGill can do to support “students from care” and one regarding the Sustainability Projects Fund. Councilors also heard committee and executive reports.
SSMU President Ben Ger and Arisha Khan, a researcher on “students from care” and SSMU Funding Commissioner, presented research regarding “children from care” (i.e. children who were taken into custody by the state or other government authorities because their parents could no longer provide for them) and how SSMU and McGill can better support them.
Ger and Khan went through a number of reasons why children enter care, noting that a disproportionate number of children in care are Black, Indigenous and/or people of colour (BIPOC). They elaborated on a number of common issues that arise when children are in care that overlap with each other, such as identity, racism, mental health, and lack of access to resources.
For example, Khan explained that “members of the LGBTQ community, they often aren’t able to voice or find themselves. […] When you’re in a situation when you get bounced around from house to house, you don’t really have a comforting environment to voice those things.”
In their presentation, Ger and Khan also gave statistics focusing on what happens to children in care when they age out of the system.
“When you’re in a situation when you get bounced around from house to house, you don’t really have a comforting environment to voice those things.”
“Less than 13 per cent enroll in any sort of post-secondary program, accompanied by less than two per cent actually graduating from those post-secondary institutions […] largely due to lack of support,” Ger said.
“When it comes to homelessness, half of the homeless young adult population is in care,” he added.
Khan explained that McGill and SSMU should take steps to advocate for students who come from care because “sticking to the status quo means that we’re perpetuating a cycle where thousands of young people aren’t given the opportunity to actually move on to adulthood.”
“Most, as you know, end up homeless and don’t have the opportunity to pursue secondary education,” she continued. “So, without obviously the educational supports as a component, but generally social supports as well, their […] ability to contribute to society […] is thwarted.”
Ger and Khan suggested McGill and SSMU should focus on diversity-inclusive enrollment strategies, active outreach, and improving support, specifically for racialized students.
“When it comes to homelessness, half of the homeless young adult population is in care.”
“We need to look into enhancing and implementing programs surrounding those […] areas and different resources we can implement,” Ger said.
He elaborated that “financial support is where we’ll start; so things like tuition waivers, room and board, designated scholarships and bursaries, living stipends, etc. There are programs that currently exist that could be expanded on, things like the access bursary fund that SSMU currently has.”
Ger and Khan further shared the different universities’ programs which address the areas of education, emotional, health, and finance, as a basis for McGill to build a future program.
Environment Representative Tuviere Okome asked if McGill’s current bursary program “[takes] into account the struggles of marginalized students and puts that into account when it decides who it gives the entry bursaries to?”
Khan responded that as far as she is aware, there are no designated supports.
So far the exact number of students this will impact is unknown, and Khan noted that they plan to do a survey to help determine the magnitude, as many students from care don’t disclose their background.
Councilors discussed a motion regarding global access to medicines policy, which was presented by Sonia Larbi-Aissa, co-president of the McGill chapter of Universities Allied for Essential Medicine (UAEM-McGill) and a former Daily editor.
“The club […] has a long term goal of seeing what’s called a ‘global access licensing framework’ implemented at McGill University in their research areas,” Larbi-Aissa explained.
An access licensing framework is “specific to the way that innovations that are invented at McGill are patented through McGill,” she added.
The motion calls for SSMU to adopt a policy regarding global access to medicines whereby “SSMU supports increased access to medicines throughout the world as a public good and a human right [and] calls for the implementation of a humanitarian or global access licensing framework for health-related technology transfers to the private sector at McGill University.”
“The club […] has a long term goal of seeing what’s called a ‘global access licensing framework’ implemented at McGill University in their research areas.”
It also called for SSMU to advocate for the implementation of such a global access licensing framework through the Senate and respective University committees.
A humanitarian clause would be added to the text of the patent agreement, which would say that if a humanitarian situation or crisis occurs, “this innovation that’s in this patent would be […] available either at cost, [meaning] the pharmaceutical company that’s producing it wouldn’t charge anything over the fixed cost of producing it […] or they would allow the intellectual property of the patent — so the way in which the medicine is made or sold — to be transferred to a generic distributor,” Larbi-Aissa explained.
This would mean developing countries should be able to produce and access the drugs at a much lower price than when a developed country produces it.
Senate Caucus Representative Joshua Chin asked if the McGill chapter of UAEM has approached the Post-Graduate Students’ Society with a similar proposal, to which Larbi-Aissa responded that they have not, but may do so in the future.
Senate Caucus Representative William Cleveland noted that Larbi-Aissa had talked about humanitarian crisis, “yet the term crisis does not appear any time in this motion, and the only time [I] really see ‘humanitarian’ used is in the third point of [the] very long whereas clause.”
This would mean developing countries should be able to produce and access the drugs at a much lower price than when a developed country produces it.
“I was wondering if a humanitarian basis could really be made for any time anyone has no access to essential medicines,” Cleveland stated. “Because I […] looked at the advocating for the implementation for a humanitarian global access licensing framework, and I went to your parent organization – the larger chapter of UAEM – and that also says nothing [about] humanitarian crises or humanitarian issues in general at all.”
“I was wondering because you’ve spoken about the humanitarian crises, in what way do you see this being incorporated to actually show that within this policy?” he asked.
“The whereas clause you’re referring to is basically the text of what’s called the SPS or the Statement of Principles and Strategies for the equitable dissemination of medical technologies that was adopted by Harvard, Brown, Oxford, and I believe 22 other institutions,” Larbi-Aissa responded, “and yes, it doesn’t specifically refer to humanitarian crises; [it] was actually put in as an example of what could be adopted by McGill.”
“Harvard, Oxford, Brown and others decided not to make it contingent on crises,” she added. “Yes, that means that a humanitarian basis could possibly apply to something a little less acute, but I ask why is that a bad thing?”
She further said that if the University needs specific reference to humanitarian crises to be in the motion for it to be implemented, UAEM was willing to add it.
The framework of the humanitarian clause will be up to the McGill Senate and those who will be making the decisions, she explained.
Arts Representative and former Daily editor Igor Sadikov noted a procedural issue with regards to this motion, in that the policy requires two readings by Council. As such, he proposed splitting the motion into two questions.
“Harvard, Oxford, Brown and others decided not to make it contingent on crises. Yes, that means that a humanitarian basis could possibly apply to something a little less acute, but I ask why is that a bad thing?”
The first part of the motion calling on SSMU to adopt a policy will be read again at another Council meeting, while the second part of the motion advocating for such a policy was voted on and passed.
A motion regarding SSMU support for cost-free birth control coverage was also brought to Council.
The motion was presented by Julian Bonellostauch, the policy director for McGill Students for the New Democratic Party (NDP-McGill).
Bonellostauch explained that many countries have birth control covered in their health plans, excluding Canada.
“However, it is covered for Quebec residents here at McGill and we want to expand that to non-Quebec Canadian residents and also ask McGill to see if they can do the same for international students,” he explained.
Currently the cost of birth control is only covered for 80 per cent of non-Quebec students. “So it would be a modest increase in the coverage but it would have great benefits because we feel that unfortunately cost is a giant barrier for health care,” Bonellostauch added.
“The main barrier to access to contraception is not cost but rather access to a family physician in order to get a prescription for hormonal birth control,” Chin said. “So my question is, have you explored this route in order to facilitate access to contraceptives?”
Bonellostauch responded that he has not personally done so, but other members of NDP-McGill are looking into it. The motion was then voted on and passed.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
