The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SPGQ calls on Quebec government to prove education is a priority
On Monday August 22, CEGEP students across Quebec started their first day of classes. For some, however, classes got off to a late start as professionals at 16 CEGEPs staged a half-day strike to protest cuts to their salaries.
Speaking to The Daily in French, Stéphane Gosselin, a representative of the college professionals belonging to the Syndicat des professionnels du gouvernement du Québec (SPGQ), explained that once CEGEP teachers have acquired a certain number of years of experience on the job, they can advance to the rank of professional.
“Seventy per cent of our categories of employment will be experiencing a drop in salary by 2019. We can’t accept that. […] No one will want to become a professional!”
Gosselin explained that when he became a professional in 1990, he was making roughly $10 an hour more than a teacher, which he said made sense considering that professionals develop programs, supervise teachers, and have more experience, as well as less vacation time.
Now, however, the situation has changed – SPGQ members who reach the rank of professional will now have their salary reduced instead.
“Seventy per cent of our categories of employment will be experiencing a drop in salary by 2019,” Gosselin said. “We can’t accept that. […] No one will want to become a professional!”
This is a serious problem, he stressed. These professionals play an essential role in CEGEPs by supporting both students and administrators. Orientation counselors, student life counselors, communications counselors, administrative workers, and several other types of employes are adversely affected by this situation.
“We realized that the more women there were, the less [professionals’] salaries increased. […] It’s discrimination against women who are college professionals.”
Furthermore, it appears that gender discrimination may be impacting the government’s treatment of this issue.
“We realized that in 1990, most of the professionals were men,” Gosselin said. “Now, we’re at 75% women. We realized that the more women there were, the less [professionals’] salaries increased. […] It’s discrimination against women who are college professionals.”
As contract negotiations with the provincial government reached an impasse months ago and ministerial representatives are allegedly refusing to return their calls, the college professionals of the SPGQ decided to launch their half-day strike last Monday. According to Gosselin, more strikes will take place this fall if the province remains intransigent on this issue.
“I don’t understand why the government is doing this,” he said. “ What must we do to fix this problem – this unfairness? […] Couillard says education is a priority – well, let him show it. Let him give the treasury minister a mandate [that would help resolve this impasse].”
At the half-day strike at Montreal’s Cégep de Saint-Laurent, the atmosphere was cheerful, with a small crowd of SPGQ members surrounding the main doors and holding placards highlighting the importance of the roles they play in the education system.
“Couillard says education is a priority – well, let him show it. Let him give the treasury minister a mandate [that would help resolve this impasse].”
One sign read, “Without us, no orientation.” Another read, “Without us, no support for learning.” As students arriving for their first day of classes approached the building, the demonstrators cheered, often earning smiles and even answering cheers in return.
In an email to The Daily, the Student Association at Cégep de Saint-Laurent (AECSL) affirmed their support of the strike and the SPGQ’s struggle for equitable pay, framing this dispute within the broader context of the provincial government’s controversial austerity measures.
“Moments of intense mobilization like the 2012 strike and the spring of 2015 are certainly short-lived, but the determination of the students and workers remains intact. The government must know that its attacks will not go unanswered.”
“The AECSL vigorously opposes the Couillard government’s austerity measures,” explained Nicholas Arthur Dufour, the association’s archivist, in French, “and affirms its solidarity with the workers of the public sector who are fighting against the [degradation] of their working conditions.”
While the association hadn’t officially called on its members to join the strike, Dufour explained, many students nonetheless participated, because “everyone recognizes that [the professionals’] work is essential for making the CÉGEP a good environment in which to live and learn.”
“Many times, the AECSL has fought back against neoliberal attacks on education and social programmes,” he said. “Moments of intense mobilization like the 2012 strike and the spring of 2015 are certainly short-lived, but the determination of the students and workers remains intact. The government must know that its attacks will not go unanswered.”
“We’re determined, we won’t give up, and we’re working hard to reach an agreement.”
Gosselin echoed this sentiment, telling The Daily that despite the SPGQ’s frustrations, he and his colleagues still feel that last week’s strike made a positive impact, by generating media attention and increasing public support. As for the future, he remains optimistic:
“We’re determined, we won’t give up, and we’re working hard to reach an agreement.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A look at what the SSMU executives did over the summer and their plans for the upcoming semester
This article was updated on September 2, at 12:45 a.m.
After a year of big changes at SSMU, most notably the addition of a seventh executive position and a subsequent redistribution of responsibilities, you might be wondering how the SSMU executives have adjusted, what they’ve been up to, and what they’re planning for the upcoming Fall semester. Well, we at The Daily wondered the same thing, and took the time to chat with each of the executives.
As leader of the SSMU executive team, and the only undergraduate student to sit on McGill’s Board of Governors (BoG), Ben Ger, a U4 Environment student, is SSMU’s highest representative in dealing with the administration. In the past, this task has caused frustration among undergraduate students, but speaking to The Daily, Ger seemed optimistic that advances can be made in a positive and cooperative manner to benefit all parties.
One of Ger’s main responsibilities as President will be the maintenance of SSMU’s governing documents and the enforcement of its Constitution and Internal Regulations. As such, Ger emphasizes the importance of “political literacy” in the student body, especially in the incoming class of 2016. Alongside SSMU’s Secretary General Etienne Gratton, Ger has been working to make governance documents more accessible to students, and is in the process of restructuring the legislative council with that goal in mind. For example, schedules for committee meetings that were previously unavailable will now be provided.
Ger’s campaign platform prioritized student mental health, and as President, he has already taken steps to ensure that his agenda reflects that. In collaboration with VP Student Life Elaine Patterson, Ger has reached out to McGill’s Wellness Recovery Action Plan (WRAP), and put in place the necessary steps to provide “Mental Health 101” training to new faculty and staff members. He is also working to create mental health clinic spaces and group therapy sessions in the Shatner building.
While mental health training isn’t currently required for all staff, Ger has been in discussion with Provost Christopher Manfredi and Associate Provost Angela Campbell to expand the scope of this training, and potentially requiring tenured professors to undergo it as well.
The new VP Internal for the 2016-2017 school year, Daniel Lawrie, a U3 materials engineering student, came into the position with no formal experience in student government. However, in a recent interview, Lawrie told The Daily that he has learned a lot on the job and is excited for the upcoming school year.
As VP Internal, Lawrie manages communications between SSMU and its members, plans events, and oversees relations with faculty associations.
When asked what challenges he has faced so far, Lawrie cited a difficulty that has plagued previous VPs Internal in the past: getting more students to read the SSMU listserv. To address this issue, he spent the summer redesigning it, and plans to share the link to the listserv through the official McGill mobile app.
With the recent redesign of the SSMU executive structure, the VP Internal now also handles first year outreach. In light of the difficulties First Year Council (FYC) faced last year, particularly its loss of service status, Lawrie has already begun restructuring FYC and the First Year Undergraduate Network (FUN). The two organizations will become a single entity, mirroring SSMU’s structure.
“The FYC [will be] elected in the traditional method, with all the first year councils from every single faculty sitting on a council that would meet […] once or twice a month.”
Lawrie also aims to diversify the events portfolio by introducing new non-alcohol based events, such as an e-gaming tournament. He also hopes to increase event attendance by selling tickets through the McGill app.
Given the fact that some students don’t have smart phones, Lawrie admits that this may pose an accessibility problem, but he says the apps will simply be another way to share information. It is unclear how selling tickets through the apps will impact students’ ability to buy them.

VP External David Aird is a joint honours political science and philosophy student who served as SSMU’s Political Campaigns Coordinator last year. This experience working closely with the previous VP External drove him to run for the position, Aird told The Daily, and it has proved extremely helpful so far.
Although Aird stressed that the VP External position appeals strongly to his own interests, he also admitted that balancing the various aspects of such a diverse portfolio has been a challenge.
The restructuring of SSMU’s executive team saw francophone affairs move to the VP External portfolio. This is an issue particularly important to Aird. As part of his community engagement mandate, Aird aims to bring back Milton-Parc conversation circles, set up a website to help the neighborhood’s permanent residents get involved in francophone events on campus, and potentially launch a series of student-led lectures for these permanent residents.
As part of his mandate, Aird also observes meetings of the Association pour la Voix Étudiante au Québec (AVEQ) and sits on several of the student federation’s sub-committees. He informs McGill students of AVEQ’s latest initiatives and the broader political climate in Québec, particularly on matters that directly affect SSMU members.
Aird has also been working to support student-led campaigns on campus, including Divest McGill, Indigenous initiatives, and the anti-austerity movement, telling The Daily that he intends to continue working closely with these groups and with faculty associations to remain as receptive as possible to students’ needs.
To combat student apathy, particularly with regards to joining a student federation, he plans to try to share information in peer-to-peer discussions rather than over social media, and implement survey-based approaches to gauge student interest and knowledge about various issues.

Elaine Patterson, SSMU’s first ever VP Student Life, is a U3 English literature and communications student. Despite the challenges associated with taking on a brand new executive position, Patterson told The Daily she is very excited about her job, particularly because mental health initiatives will now fall under her portfolio.
Patterson’s new position has enabled her to hire two new mental health commissioners, and in collaboration with SSMU President Ben Ger, she is working to implement a “Mental Health 101” training session for new faculty and staff.
Patterson is also working on carrying out her campaign promise to foster further collaboration between McGill Mental Health and Counselling Services, participating in meetings to determine the best way to achieve this. She admits that this is a long-term goal, but during the fall semester she plans to work with Student Services to implement a common intake system and make sure students are consulted. So, rather than having to navigate an often confusing system on their own, students in need of care will be asked a set of initial questions to determine whether they should go to Counselling or McGill Mental Health Services.
As part of her Clubs and Services mandate, Patterson will review all student services over the course of the year. She also hopes to make clubs more accessible and diverse by integrating equitable and sustainable event planning training into club workshops.
Patterson also told The Daily that she is working with Ger to implement a gender discrimination policy this semester that will go beyond current provisions. While she admits that the policy is in “the really rough stages,” at this point, she revealed that it should include an initiative to provide free feminine hygiene products to students who need access to them.
The VP Operations’ portfolio mainly consists of managing the Shatner building, overseeing the management of SSMU’s business operations (which include Gerts, SSMU MiniCourses, and the Student-Run Cafeteria), and implementing SSMU’s environmental sustainability goals.
Sacha Magder, current VP Operations and a U4 Biochemistry student, told The Daily that he’s most excited about the newest projects in the Shatner building this year, including a “Crash Pad” for Frosh attendees, one of his main campaign proposals. Through this initiative, Frosh attendees can sleep over in the Shatner building if they feel unable to get home easily and/or safely for whatever reason. So far, more than 200 students have signed up to use said “crash pad,” the cost of which is being paid for by a small portion of the profits made from Frosh bracelets ($0.75 of an $80-120 bracelet.) The flat fee covers the operating costs and the added salaries for security and the porters. The “crash pad” will be used primarily by Frosh attendees in the coming week, but Magder hopes to expand it in the Fall semester, possibly for use during Science Games, midterms, finals, and in the case of heavy snowstorms.
Additionally, Magder has been overseeing the fourth floor renovations in the Shatner building, which will be the site of the new and improved Peer Support Centre. Madger told The Daily that the experience has taught him a lot about crisis management, and has allowed him to take on more of the General Manager’s building responsibilities.
This year, Niall Carolan, a U4 Strategic Management student in the Desautels faculty of Management, will serve as SSMU’s VP Finance. As such, it’s his responsibility to ensure SSMU’s financial longevity by providing the Executive Committee and Board of Directors with regular reports on the organization’s financial status, and by developing its annual budget.
Over the summer, Carolan has been in discussion with Desautels Capital Management, a student-run investment management firm here at McGill, in order to set up a socially responsible investment fund for SSMU. He explained to The Daily that although the current investment portfolio is very low risk, and aims for long-term financial returns, it lacks a positive social mandate. The fund Carolan proposes would channel $1-1.5 million into investments which would create a positive social impact as well as generate profit for McGill students.
Carolan also tackled the problem of disorganized club funding by attempting to streamline the funding process and by holding regular meetings with the incoming Funding Commissioner and SSMU’s in-house accounting team. Carolan hopes to simplify the current process by removing SSMU’s second-installment reports (which put an unnecessary burden on both clubs and McGill administrators), standardizing club forms, and using budget templates.
Finally, Carolan, in consultation with VP Student Life Elaine Patterson and VP Operations Sacha Magder, aims to better balance the budget by ensuring that McGill events and operations don’t generate deficits and are as effective as possible.
Our current VP University Affairs is Erin Sobat, a fifth-year history student who has been involved in student politics for much of his time at McGill. As a SSMU executive, Sobat liaises between SSMU and the administration, and does his best to ensure that student priorities are addressed.
As such, one of his major tasks has been working with other students and with the Dean of Students, Christopher Buddle, to improve the administration’s proposed Sexual Assault Policy (SAP). After essentially rejecting the draft written and researched by the SAP working group last semester, the University offered a pared-down version, and agreed to have a policy in place by the end of 2016. In consultation with survivors of sexual assault, Sobat and other students involved have been working to flesh out this version of the SAP as much as possible, within the limits of what McGill will accept. The improved draft should be released in mid-September for consultation with the general McGill community.
Sobat, in collaboration with VP Student Life Elaine Patterson, has also been working to improve McGill’s system of academic accommodations – a system which, he says, is often arbitrary and even discriminatory, particularly toward students with mental health concerns. To this end, he has asked Dean Buddle to create a working group to investigate medical notes. The group will provide recommendations for standardizing and improving the current system.
Sobat is also in the process of developing a website to inform students in an accessible and intuitive way about their rights when dealing with the University. He is also working with a researcher to develop a policy on unpaid internships, as mandated by a motion passed at SSMU’s Winter 2015 General Assembly, and hopes to improve communications between student associations and their representatives on administrative committees, and more.
An earlier version of this article stated that SSMU President Ben Ger has been working alongside Secretary General Edyta Rogowska to make governance documents more accessible to students, and that he is in discussions with Ollivier Dyens to expand mental health training. In fact, Ger has been working alongside SSMU’s Secretary General Etienne Gratton, and is in discussions with Associate Provost Angela Campbell. The Daily regrets the error.
An earlier version of this article also stated that SSMU VP Student Life Elaine Patterson is planning to implement a common intake system. In fact, this work is being done mainly by Student Services. Patterson is working with them to execute it and make sure students are consulted. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Daily sits down with Christopher Buddle
On August 30, McGill’s new Dean of Students Christopher Buddle sat down with The Daily to talk about his new position, supporting Indigenous students, working on a new sexual assault policy, and improving McGill’s mental health and counselling services.
The McGill Daily (MD): What will be your main priority during your tenure as Dean of Students?
Christopher Buddle (CB): One of them is certainly […] helping develop the Sexual Violence Policy. […] We [also] hope by the end of the academic year to be looking at a modernization of the Charter of Student Rights.
MD: How do you believe your background will help you in this position?
CB: I don’t know how well you know [Macdonald Campus], but it’s a small community. It’s a little microcosm of McGill, which I think allowed me as Associate Dean to really get a handle on different parts of student affairs, everything from crisis management to academic accommodations, and everything in between. So I was involved in a lot of that, which I think will help in this position.
MD: One of the main responsibilities of the Dean of Students is to craft disciplinary policies. How are you planning to approach this?
CB: I’ve worked with [the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures] a lot in the past on different avenues of student discipline. I believe the code does a very good job at protecting student rights, and I think it’s clear in many ways. […] But I think what’s more important is that we clarify to our community the process of student discipline. That includes a lot of communication with instructors around how to approach academic integrity, so that, for example, we don’t want students penalized for plagiarism […] unfairly. We want them to use the Code of Conduct because that actually allows a process that is independent of the instructor, which is really, really valuable.
MD: At the Divest McGill sit-in in April of this year, former Dean of Students André Costopoulos seemed to support the activists. How will you work with student activists, and liaise between them and the administration?
CB: I think in many ways [I’ll be] similar to the previous Dean of Students. There’s no reason to be heavy handed about these things at all. Students have a right to protest, and activism is an important part of [McGill]. We’re an institution of higher learning, we welcome debate on our campus, so that’s going to create situations where there will be protests or activism occurring. […] I think the principles that André Costopoulos always held very strongly – and that I will as well – is that we have to respect private spaces on campus, and we have to respect the rights of our students in terms of their access, in terms of getting to their classes and access to their education. But beyond that, it’s always about dialogue, being very open and clear around being respectful.
MD: Part of your portfolio includes chairing the Aboriginal Affairs Work Group. What initiatives are you working on to support First Nations, Inuit, and Métis students?
CB: I think it’s a really exciting year for Indigenous affairs. I mean with [Provost and Vice-Principal (Academic) Christopher Manfredi’s Task Force on Indigenous Studies and Indigenous Education], a very clear and visible commitment to Indigenous affairs at McGill, it’s going to help immensely for a few reasons. One is that it is about visibility. […] My understanding […] is that many students aren’t identifying as Indigenous, and that might be about visibility, being sure that what we offer as an institution and [our] support is very visible.
MD: There has been rising concern about sexual assault on campuses across Canada. How do you plan to work with both the administration and students to make students feel safer?
CB: I think we’ve come a long way in terms of awareness, education, prevention, for sure. Do we have more to do? Of course – we always do. […] My office has a role to play in […] the process related to the Sexual Violence Policy. So I think we have to be crystal clear to our community about how survivors of sexual violence navigate our systems, which can be complex. I think by having a very clear process outlined, that in turn is going to help with the community recognizing that we are being proactive around supporting survivors, which in turn will help overall feedback and education and awareness about this.
MD: Earlier this year, Dean Costopoulos and Associate Provost (Policies, Procedures, and Equity) Angela Campbell withdrew their support for the student-drafted Sexual Assault Policy. What do you think about this withdrawal of support, and how will you work with students in the future to implement a new policy?
CB: I’m not going to speak to the withdrawal of support, whether it did or didn’t happen; I wasn’t involved. […] The Provost announced there would be a new Sexual Violence Policy that’s being developed through his office and with Angela Campbell’s leadership. [The policy has] been very broadly consulted this summer, and it’s going to go for a community-wide consultation in September. That gives an opportunity for more of the community to look at it and give feedback. I know, from what I’ve seen, the feedback has been taken very seriously and it’s been integrated as much as possible into the new policy.
I think it’s tremendous and I think we’ve come a long way in a relatively short time. I know that’s cold comfort for some that worked on it for a lot of years, I recognize that. But […] I think we’ve come a tremendous way in a short period of time because that foundational work was there. But it’s [only] a starting point, right? Policy is not a silver bullet to all problems on campus – it’s one piece that has to be there. […] So I think that’s really important to me, that we’re very clear in the ways that we support survivors and the ways that we recognize that policy as a vehicle towards other policies that provide, say, disciplinary action if that’s required.
Many, many universities around the world are developing policies, and I recognize that, and it’s tricky. There’s no denying it’s very tricky to develop policies because it’s balancing the support systems in place for the survivors as well as procedural equity. So there is a balance there that we need to find. I’m very, very optimistic that this policy addresses both effectively. I’m very optimistic about it, and I’m really pleased that our office has a role to play in there because […] we play a role in the well-being of our students, and supporting survivors. Helping survivors navigate the complex McGill policies is something that we have a role to play in.
MD: There has also been student discontent with McGill’s mental health services and disability accommodation. There are rumours that mental health and counselling services will be combined. What can you tell us about that? How do you plan to improve upon McGill’s ability to accommodate and support students?
CB: I was chair of the Cyclical Review of Students Services and one of our recommendations was looking at the health services broadly, and looking at how students enter that system. […] I’m not in a position to announce any specific changes, […] but you’re right, change is coming. I think everyone recognizes that there’s a need for that. […] Our office has always played a role of facilitation and mediation around accommodation and we’re going to keep doing that. […] Our goal is to get students to the right places as soon as possible. I think everyone agrees that that’s an overriding goal. Sometimes it’s slower than it should be for good reasons and sometimes for no good reason, so let’s clean it up.
MD: What is one thing you’d like to say to students as the school year gets underway?
CB: Good question. I’ve thought a lot about this. I think the idea that it’s a marathon, not a sprint. […] For students, when those first midterm grades come back, it may not be as great as hoped. It can be tough and […] there’s going to be ups and down. So pace, self-awareness, self-reflection, I think is really important to do regularly, and [it’s also important to] recognize that there’s a lot of support systems out there. But the more proactive we as a community can be, the better. […] When there are opportunities to reach out, I want students to know that we are there, and that we want to help. But it’s a marathon, not a sprint.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Making homelessness a priority by educating non-Indigenous people
The Quebec Provincial government has granted a $100,000 endowment towards Projet Autochtones du Québec (PAQ), a non-profit organization serving the homeless First Nations and Inuit populations of Montreal. PAQ aims to bridge the gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous communities by promoting the social and professional development of the former.
The government’s financial support is part of a provincial initiative called “Mobilisés et engagés pour prévenir et réduire l’itinérance” (“Mobilized and engaged to prevent and reduce homelessness” in English), which began in 2015. Aside from the PAQ grant, this programme has also granted another $60,000 to combat homelessness, though it is unclear which organisations received this money. In 2015-2016, the PAQ additionally received a grant of $189,766 from another provincial government program which aims to support community organizations.
“People who recognize the importance of homelessness and [are] able to do the kind of social development that’s needed – I think that’s marvelous!”
In a phone interview with The Daily, Chief Christine Zachary-Deom of the Mohawk Council of Kahnawà:ke expressed her approval of the grant, stressing the urgency of the homelessness problem, not just in Montreal, but across Canada.
“Homelessness is a priority,” she said. “The fact that [the PAQ has] done this kind of work, and the detailed work that they’ve done shows that [their funding] is well-used. […] People who recognize the importance of homelessness and [are] able to do the kind of social development that’s needed – I think that’s marvelous!”
“We need to be able to feel some measure of security no matter where we are, and if we’re highlighted because of who we are, and we’re made to be vulnerable, then I think we have to do more to protect ourselves.”
Chief Zachary-Deom also emphasized the importance of institutionalized programs to ensure the safety and well-being of Indigenous populations – in particular, of Indigenous women, who have been subject to extreme systemic marginalization and violence in Canada.
“There really have to be protections, and those protections have to come […] through cooperation with Indigenous organizations, to [ensure that] security can be found for women who are on the street. […] We need to be able to feel some measure of security no matter where we are, and if we’re highlighted because of who we are, and we’re made to be vulnerable, then I think we have to do more to protect ourselves,” she elaborated.
“It requires such an incredible education [of non-Indigenous people] in terms of being able to protect [Indigenous] people on the street,” Chief Zachary-Deom continued. “And I mean just walking on the street – going about their business and being harassed and harangued and pushed around.”
Leslie Anne St. Amour, SSMU’s Indigenous Affairs Coordinator, also stressed the responsibility to educate oneself on the issue of Indigenous homelessness, and, more generally, on the lived experiences and collective histories of Indigenous Canadians.
“It requires such an incredible education [of non-Indigenous people] in terms of being able to protect [Indigenous] people on the street.”
“I think it’s important for non-Indigenous folks to educate themselves about Indigenous peoples, histories, and realities because our public education system is often failing them by not including it,” St. Amour wrote in an email to The Daily.
St. Amour sees this lack of education manifest itself at McGill University regularly. “During my time at McGill, I was shocked again and again by how little McGill students knew about the Indigenous histories and realities taking place around them. Students need to take the time to hear what Indigenous students, staff and faculty have been saying for years at McGill and recognize their place in the ongoing activism.”
“McGill students have a great deal of privilege solely due to attending McGill, let alone any other privileges they may have, and they can use that privilege to share what they learn and to encourage others to learn and to support Indigenous activism in whatever way Indigenous communities need them.”
St. Amour concluded her email by highlighting the opportunities McGill students have, and how they can use those opportunities to support Indigenous activism.
“McGill students have a great deal of privilege solely due to attending McGill, let alone any other privileges they may have, and they can use that privilege to share what they learn and to encourage others to learn and to support Indigenous activism in whatever way Indigenous communities need them,” she concluded.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Members of French Socialist Party criticize leaders’ Islamophobia 
On Saturday August 27, a group of about 15 demonstrators gathered outside the French consulate on Avenue McGill College to protest the recent burkini ban enacted in several southern French towns. First implemented in Cannes on July 28 of this year, the ban has proved intensely controversial, with many calling it a flagrant example of institutionalized Islamophobia. Although it was recently declared unconstitutional by the country’s highest judicial body, some local politicians have refused to rescind the burkini ban.
“The idea behind this [protest] was just to say, in a very dignified and simple way, ‘I disagree with what’s happening in my country’,” said Carl Mörch, one of the organizers of Saturday’s event, speaking to The Daily. “[Islamophobia] is a growing trend, and we have to be aware of that – we have to fight it.”
Mörch is a French citizen, currently pursuing a doctorate in Montreal. Back home, he said, he is a member of the Socialist Party – the party currently in power, of which many members have tacitly or overtly supported the burkini ban. Indeed, Manuel Valls, the current Prime Minister of France and a Socialist Party member, called the burkini a symbol of “a murderous and regressive Islamism,” in French.
“[Islamophobia] is a growing trend, and we have to be aware of that – we have to fight it.”
The protest was initially promoted via Facebook. According to Montreal activist Jaggi Singh, it was originally organized by the Montreal section of the French Socialist Party. He expressed concerns on the event’s Facebook page, “essentially questioning the involvement of the French Socialist Party, and critiquing their own complicity with xenophobia,” he said.
“The French Socialist Party (and all the French parties, both left and right) have absolutely no credibility when it comes to this issue,” he argued. “Absurdly, a group that deserves to be protested themselves for encouraging xenophobia was organizing against the burkini.”
However, for Mörch, “It’s a difficult time to be a socialist because I really don’t agree with a lot of things that have been said by the government that’s supposed to represent my values.”
“The French Socialist Party (and all the French parties, both left and right) have absolutely no credibility when it comes to this issue.”
Haroun Bouazzi, a French anti-Islamophobia activist who helped organize the protest, sharply criticised the Socialist Party’s stance on the burkini. “It’s totally disgusting, and not part of the republican French values, and for this reason I think the Prime Minister should [resign],” he said in an interview with The Daily.
Bouazzi stressed the fact that state-sanctioned discrimination against Muslims is hardly a new phenomenon in France, pointing to the country’s history of imperial and colonial rule in North Africa, its suppression of anti-colonial activism, and, most recently, a slew of laws targeting elements of traditional Muslim dress, such as a 2004 law which banned headscarves and other religious symbols in public schools.
“Basically, […] there are racist people in France […] and everyone wants to show that they’re at least a little bit racist to get that vote.”
“We have […] no anti-racist alternative today in France,” said Bouazzi, “so it’s time for the left-wing parties to take the responsibility, to get rid of Mr. Valls and whoever is agreeing with him, and [create a] truly progressive anti-racist movement.”
Bouazzi argued that in a time of economic uncertainty and heightened fears regarding terrorism, particularly after the recent attack in Nice, the country’s political left has increasingly sought to exploit racial and religious prejudices to gain popular support.
“If France sneezes, we [in Quebec] get sick. It’s sad, but the opportunity […] to get elected based on Islamophobic and racist votes is something that also exists here.”
“Basically, […] there are racist people in France […] and everyone wants to show that they’re at least a little bit racist to get that vote,” he said.
In recent weeks, the burkini issue has made its way to Quebec, with Nathalie Roy of the Coalition Avenir Québec Party calling the garment “an accessory of female servitude.”
“If France sneezes, we [in Quebec] get sick,” said Bouazzi. “It’s sad, but the opportunity […] to get elected based on Islamophobic and racist votes is something that also exists here. […] Mme. Roy understood that.”
Bouazzi expressed guarded optimism about the future of Quebec’s Muslim minority, pointing out that previous efforts to garner political support through Islamophobia – such as the Quebec Charter of Values from 2013 – have largely failed.
“Our history is full of ugly things, and we are […] coming back to these ugly things.”
With regard to the rising tide of Islamophobia in France, however, Bouazzi was less optimistic.
“I think if Manuel Valls leaves, […] maybe there is an option [that things will get better],” he said. If not, France may well end up doing things that are disgusting to see, and that we have in our history.”
“Our history is full of ugly things, and we are […] coming back to these ugly things,” he concluded.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
