The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students bring up security and stigmatization concerns at town hall
On October 25, roughly 15 students and other members of the university community gathered in the Redpath Museum Auditorium for a town hall meeting regarding McGill’s Draft Smoking on Campus Policy.
The policy was developed following consultation with the McGill community that was initiated by the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) and the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) of McGill University.
Robert Couvrette, the Associate Vice-Principal (University Services), mandated a working group to recommend ways to implement a campus-wide non-smoking policy.
Panelists at the town hall included Paul Guenther, senior campus planner at the Office of Campus and Space Planning and chair of the working group, David Benrimoh, working group student representative, and Jenny Ann Pura, PGSS Member Services Officer and working group PGSS representative. The discussion was moderated Lindsay Duncan, a professor in the Department of Kinesiology and Physical Education.
Guenther began the discussion by explaining that in developing the policy, the working group looked at similar practices at universities in North America and Europe that mirror McGill’s campus dynamics. The group also consulted academic research, which showed that “exposure to secondhand smoke poses a health risk for the entire community.”
The policy defines smoking as “the usage of any product that contains or otherwise utilizes tobacco, tobacco-derived substances, and/or emits a vapor or smoke.” Smoking would be banned on campus except for a designated area at the Upper Residences and designated areas on MacDonald campus and the Gault Estate.
“Based on best practices [at universities] this policy will be self-enforced by the community,” Guenther said. “It’s expected that the broader community, including the student outreach teams, university leaders and staff, will educate anyone who is ignoring or unaware of the policy [….] but there is no punitive enforcement.”
Speaking to The Daily, Guenther also noted that the working group is consulting the broader Montreal community. “I’m meeting with FACE [Fine Arts Core Education] school […] on [Rue] University, I’ve reached out to John Abbott College at MacDonald campus, I’ve reached out to Gault Estate and I’m about to reach out to some of the unions as well, trade unions especially, to see how [the policy] will impact them,” he explained.
The town hall began with a student asking for the reason behind ruling out punitive measures. A representative from McGill Security attending the discussion responded that this would require “individuals to identify themselves in order to receive punitive penalties [which] is something that is really hard to do.”
Guenther added the major universities surveyed by the working group did not use punitive measures.
Another student brought up concerns regarding stigmatization. “For some people, including myself, cigarettes and tobacco products are a way to cope with […] stress,” he said. “[Also], just because I am a smoker, people will harass me, and you’re really only encouraging that policy by putting smokers in a corner and alienating us. So how would you respond to this?”
He further said that during exams, having to walk to Sherbrooke, for example, would add stress on smokers.
“We are not, by this policy, mandating students to stop smoking, in any way, shape or form,” Benrimoh said. “I know that it does impose some restrictions on [smokers]. [But] because it is not a technique of stress relief that is only limited to yourself and actually causes harm to others, it’s unfair to allow it in an area where it’s harming others.” He also acknowledged the policy may result in stigmatization.
Attendees also brought up the issue of safety for smokers when studying on campus late at night.
“You’re putting students in a problematic situation where [they’re] on the streets late at night, away from any security. How do you respond to that?” one student asked.
Another student also noted that there have been security incidents late at night on streets adjacent to campus.
Benrimoh said that the working group could consult McGill Security’s patrol routes and potentially adjust the policy, and that, if students feel unsafe at night, this is a bigger concern the University should address.
After the town hall, in an interview with The Daily, Benrimoh reflected that “the comments today were especially useful. I think the most useful one was the question about security and I think that we do have to talk with McGill Security.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students question the impact of “two doors, one service”
On Monday, October 24, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Mental Health Committee hosted a panel discussion on the state of mental health services at McGill. Panelists included Giuseppe Alfonsi, Associate Director of McGill Counselling and Mental Health Services, George Radiotis, a psychotherapist working for McGill Counselling and Mental Health Service, Teri Phillips, Director of the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD), Chris Buddle, Dean of Students, and Quinn Ashkenazy, chair of the Peer Support Centre.
The discussion began with an overview of recent changes to the structure of the McGill Counselling and Mental Health Services, including the implementation of a stepped care model. The new model is based on the system currently in place at Memorial University in St. John’s, Newfoundland. According to Alfonsi, this model will give students more power in determining their treatment plan.
The model emphasizes choice, providing a number of treatment options which serve as intermediate ‘steps’ to one-on-one psychotherapy – the treatment students typically received under the old system. The changes come in response to the strain put on the counselling and mental health services in recent years, as demand exceeds the availability of psychotherapy treatment.
According to Alfonsi, the McGill Health Clinic has seen “a 30 per cent increase in users over the last five years.”
He added that introducing a “wider menu of options of different modalities” such as group therapy, online therapy, and referrals to other organizations such as the Peer Support Centre will reduce the strain on the service.
The stepped care model also aims to avoid “handoffs,” referrals from one professional to another or from one service to another that made it difficult for the student to access appropriate services, which were common under the old system.
The model operates as “two doors, one service,” meaning that you can enter through either counselling or mental health, but that both are processed by a single, combined system.
One attendee raised concerns regarding the the implementation of “two doors, one service.”
“In terms of your two different teams have they become one team?” she asked. “Is there now one culture and one training and hiring process, or are they going to maintain two different kinds of philosophies, and therefore this affects the practices and the services, and therefore maybe students still should make a choice about which door to enter?”
“In terms of one culture, we just started this process, so let’s be realistic.” Alfonsi responded. “I think it’s a long-term goal to have at least one culture […] to have more communication, certainly to have common needs – which may seem like a small thing, but we didn’t have that in the past.”
He added that mental health and counselling staff will have more training and workshops together.
Phillips added that “when there is need, students can be transferred between professionals, and I would see that being the value of having a spectrum of [diverse professionals in the service].”
The stepped care model also aims to avoid “handoffs,” referrals from one professional to another or from one service to another that made it difficult for the student to access appropriate services.
Ashkenazy also said the new model expands students’ treatment options, opening the door to services such as the Peer Support Center, where students can receive help from their peers.
The panelists also discussed the introduction of “treating professionals.” A “treating professional” is the first person a student meets with at the McGill Counselling and Mental Health Services. The “treating professional” meets with the student to determine together what their needs are and what service best suits them.
The panelists were asked whether students could expect any basic services from these “treating professionals.”
“In terms of the [treating professional], what is this person actually doing and how much time has been carved out for the professionals to deal with that?” one student asked.
“It’s more of a collaborative conversation with the student […] to determine ‘okay, these are the things that are going on right now, which ones do you want to focus on right now?’” Radiotis explained. “The treating professional […] becomes the point person for that student moving forward.”
“Is there a specific thing you can expect though from your [training professional]?” she asked.
Radiotis explained that that is determined in the first meeting between the student and professional. He emphasized once again that it is a collaborative process, based on what works best for the student.
Alfonsi suggested that the flexibility in this process is a “strength of the system” because it provides more choice for students.
Panelists also discussed the viability of online therapy.
Radiotis emphasized that the service is trying to incorporate online therapy into their treatment plans because it is proven to be an often effective alternative to one-on-one psychotherapy.
Alfonsi suggested that there are virtues to online therapy that don’t apply to other forms of treatment, for example, that it’s easy to access and involves little commitment from those students who don’t feel ready for psychotherapy.
One attendee asked how the service is reaching out to international students. Phillips responded by expressing her own concern about a lot of international students falling through the cracks.
“The barrier actually comes from some of the cultural differences […] that disability is something that is not talked about in a lot of students’ home country or that it was very stigmatized in their home country. However, that being said, that’s where the education part is important to know about the peer services that exist,” Phillips said.
“It’s more of a collaborative conversation with the student […] to determine ‘okay, these are the things that are going on right now, which ones do you want to focus on right now?’”
— George Radiotis, Psychotherapist
Alfonsi said that McGill is working to break down barriers between international students and the Counselling and Mental Health Services, saying “that’s exactly the population we’re most concerned about.” They are also focused on expanding mental health insurance provided to international students and increasing the number of international languages in which treatment is offered.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Speakers call for intersectionality and government action
On the evening of Wednesday, October 26, more than one thousand people gathered at Place Émilie-Gamelin for a demonstration against rape culture. Organized partially in response to a series of recent high-profile sexual assault cases in Quebec, the demonstration united a broad and diverse cross-section of the local community in support of those who have experienced sexual violence. Protesters also marched that day in various other cities across the province.
At roughly 5:45 p.m., a series of speeches began, as representatives of different movements and organizations from Montreal addressed the crowd from a raised platform in the center of the packed square. First to speak was Natasha Kanapé Fontaine, a feminist activist and member of the Innu people, Indigenous to northern Quebec. Greeting those assembled, she explained the reason behind the demonstration:
“In the context of the case brought against Radio Canada by police officers of the Sureté du Québec of Valdor, in connection to the broadcasting of a report on abuses committed against Indigenous women […] and with the grave and serious allegations about a [Quebec] National Assembly deputy, thousands of women and non-binary individuals demonstrate with their allies to send a clear message: we’ve had enough of rape culture and of sexual violence. […] We hope that this day represents a renewal of solidarity between many different struggles for equality, uniting militants from many communities and representing our diversity.”
Like the other speakers who addressed the crowd, Fontaine spoke in French, accompanied by a sign language translator.
Next to speak were three leaders of the recently founded Quebec Against Sexual Violence, Kimberley Marin, Mélanie Lemay, and McGill student Ariane Litalien. Having experienced sexual assault themselves, they spoke passionately and with an understanding of the complex circumstances that often lead people in their position not to report an assault.
Another speaker, Catherine Roy-Goyette, the constituency assistant of Hochelaga’s Member of Parliament and a member of the New Democratic Party (NDP), criticised governmental inaction in no uncertain terms, telling the crowd that change doesn’t come only through bills and parliamentary debate.
“We hope that this day represents a renewal of solidarity between many different struggles for equality, uniting militants from many communities and representing our diversity.”
“It takes a diversity of actions,” said Roy-Goyette. “Demonstrations, like we’re seeing today across Quebec, journalistic investigations, articles in the media, discussions in our kitchens and on social media. But […] government also has a role to play.”
“[We need] funding for victims and for the groups that take care of those victims. It will also take a complete revision of the Criminal Code to equip our judicial system to convict aggressors,” she continued. “When I think that for every ten complaints filed with the police, only one results in a conviction, […] I am sickened.”
Emilie Nicolas, co-founder of the non-profit Inclusive Quebec, also addressed the crowd, beginning her speech by thanking Alice Paquet, who recently accused Liberal member of the Quebec National Assembly, Gerry Sklavounos, of sexual assault in 2014, for her courage in the preceding week. Paquet has been criticised in the media and her story has been discredited on the basis of her support for sex workers.
Nicolas also spoke strongly in favour of approaching sexual violence intersectionally.
“When I think that for every ten complaints filed with the police, only one results in a conviction, […] I am sickened.”
“To all the Indigenous women who carry the weight of feminicide that has been ignored for years, […] to all those who fear for their security and their credibility in the eyes of the police, […] to all the women whose [experience] is ignored by those women who claim to fight for all women, […] to all those who were assaulted by […] someone responsible for their well-being, and who fear being left without resources if they denounce, […] to all those who are torn between denouncing sexist violence, and denouncing the racist representation of men of their community, […] to all those who are afraid of being deported from the country if they denounce, […] to all those whose financial means or support system […] don’t allow them to denounce, […] we believe you, we respect you, we support you.”
The event was open to people of all genders, though cisgender men were encouraged to give space to women, as well as trans and non-binary individuals, as these communities typically experience a disproportionate amount of sexual violence.
Speaking to The Daily in English, Kyle, a student at Concordia, said that as a cisgender, masculine-presenting person, he felt that he should “definitely [be] taking a step back” at a protest like this.
“I see my role as an ally and as someone who is also taking a stance against toxic masculinity on campuses and in our society at large,” said Kyle, “because it’s not something that’s just restricted to university spaces.”
Kyle also addressed the fact that in supposedly progressive university spaces, insidious forms of gendered and sexual violence can also be present.
“There’s definitely […] people who can talk the talk and [quote] the literature, but aren’t actually living their politics,” he said, “and I think that there needs to be a culture of both cis dudes calling that shit out, but then also more broadly men need to take a step back and listen to when they’re being called out,” he said.
“My experience is, having been called out for saying fucked-up things, […] it doesn’t feel good, but it’s also [important] to learn to take a step back and listen, because if people are calling you out there’s reason for it,” he continued. “If you claim to […] live radical politics, then a key component of that is abolishing patriarchy and recognizing privilege in the spaces that you have and the spaces that you take up.”
The demonstration not only brought together people of diverse ethnicities, genders, sexualities and faiths, but also people of all ages. A “baby bloc” was organized in which parents of small children gathered to march together, often pushing strollers.
One woman who had brought her daughters – aged three and six years old – to the protest told The Daily in French that she “[came] for them, […] to change something so that my daughters don’t have to find themselves in uncomfortable situations at some point, and so that they can have all the resources to be able to control the situation.”
“If you claim to […] live radical politics, then a key component of that is abolishing patriarchy and recognizing privilege in the spaces that you have and the spaces that you take up.”
Despite the Service de Police de la Ville Montreal (SPVM)’s history of dealing violently with protests, she explained that she hadn’t been nervous about bringing her children along, trusting the organizers and expecting a peaceful protest.
“We’re here to denounce violence,” she said. “Otherwise I wouldn’t have brought them.”
Indeed, the rally at Place Émilie-Gamelin and the subsequent march were entirely peaceful, with an extremely light police presence. After roughly an hour of speeches, the crowd left the square and walked west along Maisonneuve, led by a small group of Indigenous women. Overall, the mood of the demonstration seemed relaxed and cheerful, with most participants chatting among themselves.
The march proceeded west as far as Union, before turning south and circling back east to Place des Arts along Ste. Catherine. Once there, they spread out into a wide circle, in the middle of which the Innu women who led the march performed a traditional song. They then invited the assembled crowd to join in, and dance around the circle holding hands.
“There’s definitely […] people who can talk the talk and [quote] the literature, but aren’t actually living their politics.”
At this stage, some of the participants dispersed, while several hundred remained in Place des Arts, dancing and cheering in a display of defiance and solidarity. Ultimately, this group left the square en masse and held a spontaneous demonstration.
Consisting mainly of students, and adopting a far more militant tone, this second demonstration proceeded at random through the lower Plateau, chanting “We believe you!,” “Whose streets? Womens’ streets!,” and “Your hand on my ass, my fist in your face!” in French.
In sharp contrast to the earlier and more sedate demonstration, this one garnered significant attention from law enforcement, with large numbers of police vehicles following the crowd and rushing to block streets ahead of them. No confrontation occurred, however, and having dwindled to roughly a hundred participants, the protest dispersed peacefully at the Beaudry metro station.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students’ Society of McGill University calls on Quebec to do more
Recently, a provincial government report was released which revealed that many Quebec university buildings are in poor condition, especially those at McGill, Concordia, and l’Université de Montréal.
McGill received the worst grade from provincial building inspectors, with the report showing that 73 per cent of the buildings at McGill are in “poor, or worse condition.” In comparison, 60 per cent of the buildings at Concordia and l’Université de Montréal have been assessed as being “in need of urgent renovations.”
73 per cent of the buildings at McGill are in “poor, or worse condition”
“On a per square metre basis, 27 per cent of McGill’s 850,000 square metres received an E grade,” said Associate Vice-Principal (University Services) Robert Couvrette in an email to The Daily. Buildings in Quebec are inspected and assessed using letter grades, ranging from A to E, with E being the worst grade a building can receive. Several buildings at McGill received an E grade, most notably the Strathcona Anatomy and Dentistry Building.
McGill and the province of Quebec are collaborating to restore the relevant facilities across McGill’s two campuses, but there seems to be a discrepancy between the two parties’ assessments of the resources needed to fix the problem.
The report conducted by the province concluded that the repairs needed at McGill would cost roughly $600 million, but this number was drastically different than McGill’s estimate, which is closer to $1 billion.
According to Couvrette, this difference is a result of the province’s lack of consideration regarding the infrastructure costs.
The report conducted by the province concluded that the repairs needed at McGill would cost roughly $600 million, but this number was drastically different than McGill’s estimate, which is closer to $1 billion.
“Infrastructure costs, such as underground water, sewer and heating pipes, that we have to maintain and repair from time to time […] would account for about $200 million of that gap,” explained Couvrette. “Our entire deferred maintenance deficit is approximately $900 million, plus deficiencies that were not identified by a visual inspection.”
Ultimately, he argued that McGill cannot provide a completely accurate estimate of the intended construction projects’ costs until the administration finishes the remainder of the studies required by the government.
However, Quebec has publicly stated that universities are unable to fund the restoration of the majority of their structures. As a result, the province has pledged to contribute $1 billion to Quebec universities maintenance efforts over the next six years.
In terms of future restoration projects, several longstanding plans have been put in place by the University.
When asked about the budget allocated for building maintenance this year, Couvrette wrote that “the provincial government gives us about $46 million per year for building repair and we spend about $40 million from the operations budget per year, which includes $10 million in cleaning maintenance costs. So the total spent on building repair is about $75 million.”
“So the total spent on building repair is about $75 million.”
“There are two major priorities we need to address: building envelopes [exterior masonry, windows, and so on] and HVAC [heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems],” he clarified.
According to Couvrette, the facilities being prioritized for their failing exteriors are the James Administration Building, the Macdonald-Stewart Building, the Macdonald-Harrington Building, the Strathcona Anatomy and Dentistry Building, and the Macdonald Engineering Building. The facilities that are being prioritized for their HVAC systems are the Macdonald-Stewart Building, the Rutherford Physics Building, Lyman Duff Medical Building, Burnside Hall, the Shatner Building, and the Ferrier Building.
The James Administration Building, according to Couvrette, received an intermediary grade between D and E. With regard to maintenance, the priorities are improving the facade. Construction is set to begin on the building in the next two years and will cost an estimated $4 million. Additionally, Couvrette says, the reconstruction of the Macdonald Stewart Library is set to take place in the next two years.
“Preliminary work will begin in 2017, with the actual construction slated to start in the spring of 2018,” he elaborated. “The project is expected to last between 12 and 18 months. The budget for the masonry work, funded by a special grant from the Quebec government, will be in the $25 million range.”
Plans for the other high priority buildings are still being drafted by the University, he says, with assistance from the government. This includes the Strathcona Anatomy and Dentistry Building, where the government and the University are working together to find a source of funding.
The James Administration Building, according to Couvrette, received an intermediary grade between D and E.
SSMU and student reactions
McGill students have long raised concerns about the campus’s maintenance problems, with many questioning whether the buildings follow the safety codes mandated by the province of Quebec: buildings like the Macdonald Stewart Library are noticeably damaged to students and visitors alike, and worse than being aesthetically displeasing, the reconstruction of these buildings has created accessibility problems for many students.
In an email to The Daily, SSMU VP University Affairs Erin Sobat clarified that SSMU has been attempting to help students who have brought complaints forward about the building conditions, deferred maintenance, general maintenance, and classroom spaces.
In a collective statement to The Daily, SSMU explained their concerns with McGill’s building maintenance.
“Deferred maintenance is a serious issue because it limits McGill’s ability to invest in modernized facilities and accessibility initiatives, such as incorporating universal design standards into all renovation projects,” said the statement. “We need to see a stronger funding commitment from the government to address these problems at all Quebec universities.”
This response from SSMU mirrors the reactions of many McGill students, who are frustrated with the University, but also equally frustrated with the city and the province.
In an interview with The Daily, a student who preferred to remain anonymous remarked that building failures are less noticeable because of city construction on campus.
“The exteriors of the buildings appear not up to code, but the insides appear fine,” they said. “It is sometimes hard to notice the buildings with the entire campus being torn up by construction.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Universities Allied for Essential Medicines discusses SSMU GA motion 
On October 16, the McGill Students’ Chapter of Universities Allied for Essential Medicines (UAEM) could be seen standing at the University’s Y intersection, launching their campaign to raise awareness about their upcoming SSMU General Assembly (GA) motion aimed at improving global accessibility to medicine.
UAEM describes itself as a global student organization that seeks to improve innovation, access, and empowerment in the field of international healthcare. If the McGill chapter’s motion passes on November 7 at the GA, the motion will push the University to “adopt an open access framework for all future medicine patents created at McGill and sold to the private sector.”
Peter Grabitz, UAEM’s European coordinator and member of the McGill chapter, explained in an interview with The Daily why UAEM McGill introduced their motion.
“[Our] basic issue is that a lot of research, that is eventually leading to innovation, is done at the university level,” Grabitz explained. “However […] once the University is licensing and patenting innovation in a way that allows the product to be bought up [and monopolized] by a company.”
“The public is basically paying two or three times [the product’s cost],” he explained. “They’re first paying for the basic research, and then they’re paying for the marketing, and the profit margin of the company afterwards. One easy way to stop this is changing the licensing condition at the university level.”
“What we want to do,” he added, “is to have McGill introduce licensing conditions that ensure global access to medicine and to the innovation that comes out of it.”
While McGill’s UAEM chapter has been active for five years, this is the first time that the student group is bringing forth a motion, entitled “Policy Regarding Global Access to Medicines”, to a SSMU General Assembly in order to implement concrete action to secure institutional accountability.
“The McGill chapter first and foremost wants to push for the access framework at an institutional level at a General Assembly motion,” said Sonia Larbi-Aissa, Co-President of UAEM McGill and a former Daily editor. “What [the motion] is, is actually a policy that would become an official agenda item for SSMU senators for the next five years.”
The motion overall emphasizes accessibility in the hypothetical event of a humanitarian health crisis. Drawing parallels between the 1990s HIV/AIDS epidemic and the 2013-16 West African Ebola virus epidemic, Larbi-Aissa explained that “in the event of a humanitarian crisis like that, […] this document that we cite in the motion states […] that what would happen is that the patent and that drug would be available in the developing country in question.”
“What we want to do is to have McGill introduce licensing conditions that ensure global access to medicine and to the innovation that comes out of it.”
“People would never be able to afford the market price of that drug,” she continued, “because pharmaceuticals are pricing it at monopoly prices, which are above the fixed cost of producing the drug.”
Speaking about the importance of student involvement, Christine Kim, U3 Pharmacology student and Co-President of UAEM McGill, stated that the issue of inaccessibility in international healthcare is rarely critically engaged with in academic study.
“I’m a pharmacology major and even the students who learn about this issue, they learn it in a very different manner from how we’re doing it here and during our workshops and meetings,” she said. “I think it’s important for there to be an organization from the students on the other side of things. […]There’s also a large amount of students that don’t even learn about this in class,” Kim added.
Chloe Hogg, a U3 Arts student who founded three chapters of UAEM in Melbourne, Australia, spoke about the importance of realizing the power McGill wields in how it licenses research.
“The way basic research is licensed off by big research institutions like McGill makes it unavailable to developing countries because the prices are so high,” she clarified. “We want to change McGill’s policies so that medicines are more accessible to all.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
