The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“No way we’ll be able to keep up with the demand,” says Student Services Interim Director
On March 11, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) organized a Mental Health Forum, where members of the McGill community met for an afternoon of in-depth discussion. The forum concluded with a public question and answer period, featuring representatives from Student Services, the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD), the Counselling Service, and McGill Mental Health Service (MMHS).
In recent years, the state of campus mental health services has become an increasingly talked-about issue, with many students calling for better and more accessible care. Over the past few years, SSMU has adopted a five-year mental health plan and incorporated mental health into the portfolio of, first, the VP University Affairs, and more recently of the VP Student Life. Many candidates during this year’s SSMU executive elections and the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) elections have also run on platforms of mental health.
Now, it would appear that concrete improvements are on the horizon, as a series of reforms are planned which should streamline the current system and allow more students to access the services which better suit their individual needs.
“It’s not just that we’re seeing more students, but that the kinds of treatments they need are going to be more intensive.”
SSMU VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke opened the discussion by asking each representative what their organization was doing to cope with the dramatic increase in students’ use of McGill’s mental health services over the past few years.
Teri Phillips, director of the OSD, said the office has experienced a 250 per cent increase in use in the past five years alone. According to Phillips, adopting a more flexible approach to scheduling, by allowing Skype meetings and implementing drop-in hours, has made OSD services more accessible, and been well received by students.
Associate Clinical Director of MMHS Giuseppe Alfonsi said at the forum, “It’s not just that we’re seeing more students, but that the kinds of treatments they need are going to be more intensive.”
MMHS had recently begun implementing a wider spectrum of lower-intensity approaches to mental health care in order to help as many students as possible, Alfonsi explained, though he acknowledged that this was far from an ideal solution.
“If we’re not able to give, say, individual psychotherapy to every single person that walks through the door, [we should] at least give them something useful in a timely manner that will help them,” Alfonsi said. “So that’s […] the realist approach that we’re taking. I mean, if we got the resources today [to help everyone effectively], remember, it’s a linear [increase in students needing our services], so we’d have to increase that next year, and the year after, and the year after.”
“There’s just no way we’ll be able to keep up with the demand.”
The Interim Senior Director of Student Services, Robyn Wiltshire, stressed the need for McGill’s different mental health providers to work closely together in order to meet students’ needs most effectively.
“There’s no way that we can, within the budget that we have in Student Services […] and within the physical constraints that we have, […] deliver the type of appointments that were available previously to as many students as will demand them, and there’s just no way we’ll be able to keep up with the demand,” said Wiltshire.
However, Wiltshire added that the system could be streamlined by “using technology more effectively,” and implementing more creative and flexible forms of care.
Wiltshire also raised issue with the system requiring students to provide a medical note in order to miss class. Panelists and students alike at the event called the practice time-consuming, vulnerable to abuse, and potentially stressful to navigate. Alfonsi added that currently between 1,000 and 1,500 MMHS appointments every year are solely concerned with medical notes, taking up time that could be better spent on therapy.
One student asked the MMHS representatives present if they would consider re-evaluating their therapists, citing a particularly negative experience with one.
“Last Friday, I went into McGill Mental Health in order to get a paper extension, and I’m currently working to fight against PTSD [post-traumatic stress disorder],” said the student. “The therapist, when I went and saw her, she told me that I should have, quote, ‘planned ahead’ on being triggered, and on not being able to [write] my paper properly […] I really find [it] kind of inappropriate that she would say something like that, especially since I have mental health [issues] and anxiety.”
Alfonsi and Nancy Low, the Clinical Director of MMHS, assured the student that their feedback was valuable. The clinical staff is reviewed every semester, said Low, and held accountable to students’ concerns. Alfonsi added that MMHS generally responds to student complaints within 48 hours, and has tried to highlight opportunities for students to leave feedback both online and on paper at the MMHS office.
“I was clearly not [suicidal], but there was no other choice. […] There doesn’t seem to be that middle ground.”
Another student told Low and Alfonsi that, having come to MMHS to get help during a moment of crisis, they had been presented with just two options: either join a several-week-long waiting list for a one-on-one appointment with a doctor, or to be put on suicide watch.
“I was clearly not [suicidal], but there was no other choice. […] There doesn’t seem to be that middle ground,” said the student.
Cases like this, said Alfonsi, highlight the need for the kind of step-care model that MMHS is currently working toward, which would provide a range of different levels of assistance based on the individual needs of students. A representative from Counselling Service added that implementing a common triage process between all branches of McGill mental health services should also help prevent such incidents.
Wiltshire explained that the concerns raised in the discussion would be brought to the Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens, as Wiltshire and Dyens meet regularly.
“If there are issues that come up in the student press, if there are issues that are raised by SSMU or PGSS [Post-Graduate Students’ Society of McGill] or one of the other student associations, we’re called to task, and we’re asked to report,” explained Wiltshire. “I have a set of objectives […] and they have to do with the service improvements that we’re talking about and […] the policy changes that we’re trying to advocate for. […] As I said, we’re doing a lot of work, and we’re going to do it very quickly, and we’re going to do it properly, and we are consulting with students.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panelists emphasize solidarity between marginalized groups 
As part of the Montreal Israeli Apartheid Week event series, activists Kezia Curtis, a member of Black Lives Matter Detroit, and Brittany King, a member of the Dream Defenders, a social justice group, spoke at a panel discussion called “Black Perspectives on the Question of Palestine” held on March 17.
The panel was organized by the Black Students’ Network (BSN) and McGill Students in Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights (SPHR), and explored “transnational solidarity between the movements for justice for Black people in North America and movements for justice for Palestinians in Israel and the Occupied Territories.”
“If [activists] are going to be successful in doing the work that we aim to do, then it is so important for us to engage in solidarity with other oppressed and marginalized groups.”
Curtis and King highlighted their experiences as activists working within the Black and Palestinian struggles, and emphasized the need to decolonize the mind in order for solidarity networks to thrive.
Ryan, one of the organizers of the event, told The Daily that he believes that “if [activists] are going to be successful in doing the work that we aim to do, then it is so important for us to engage in solidarity with other oppressed and marginalized groups.”
The panelists noted the historical parallels between the Palestinian and Black social justice movements, with both populations still facing state-sanctioned racism and violence.
Curtis spoke about her experiences as a Black woman travelling within Palestine. It was like “looking at Detroit in a different part of the world,” Curtis said with regards to her trip to Palestine. Curtis also spoke about how violence was experienced on a very real, day-to-day basis, particularly at the university she visited.
Curtis and King also spoke about other related issues faced by both Black people in the U.S. and Palestinians, such as gentrification, limited access to land and farming, and militarization of settler-colonial states.
Curtis further noted a crucial difference between the U.S. and Palestine which she witnessed on her trip – the outright and explicit violence, guns, weaponry, and tear gas constantly being used against Palestinians in Hebron, in contrast to the significantly less militarized nature of the violence in the U.S..
The panel also highlighted the importance of challenging anti-Black racism within solidarity movements.
“Part of […] solidarity includes critical self-reflection in order to avoid being complicit in the oppression of other groups, especially in the case of anti-Blackness.”
Ryan pointed out that “part of […] solidarity includes critical self-reflection in order to avoid being complicit in the oppression of other groups, especially in the case of anti-Blackness.”
King also stressed the need for self-reflection and critical thinking to challenge instances of global anti-Blackness. King argued that social media and mainstream media act as ways that uphold anti-Blackness. For example, King explained, the stigma that Black Muslims face in Muslim communities – a phenomenon perpetuated through social media – is evidence to this.
As a Black woman, she added, it is important for her to stand in solidarity with other oppressed people. “Anti-Blackness won’t stop unless we challenge ourselves,” King explained.
“Anti-Blackness won’t stop unless we challenge ourselves.”
In an interview with The Daily, a student who attended the panel noted, “I thought it was encouraging that [the panelists] were working on the ground in their own communities to educate people on anti-Blackness and how to decolonize a mindset that’s been so largely ingrained in society.”
King added that a critical understanding of how colonization affects all people should unite seemingly disparate justice movements. “For me, it’s just all about education,” she said. “If you see that my struggle and your struggle are the same […] that will make that solidarity more attainable.”
“If you see that my struggle and your struggle are the same […] that will make that solidarity more attainable.”
Michelle Blassou, a member of the BSN, told The Daily that the talk raised important parallels, and that “uniting around the idea that the colonial state will always be against both of us leaves a lot of work to do.”
A previous version of this article erroneously stated that Aja Monet also attended the panel. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Concerns arise at Council that proposed positions are not “originating from within” 
The need for the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) to increase its political presence was the main topic of discussion at the March 16 Council meeting, following the circulation of a list of proposed positions for an emerging student federation, the Association pour la voix étudiante au Québec (AVEQ). The Annual General Meeting (AGM), also scheduled for March 16, was cancelled due to lack of quorum.
Secretary-General Danielle Toccalino explained that, because PGSS currently has very few political positions, it was difficult for her to represent PGSS in the elaboration of AVEQ’s political stances. Toccalino sought Council’s feedback on the proposed political stances that AVEQ had not yet adopted due to a lack of mandate from a majority of the associations at the table. PGSS is not a member of AVEQ, but External Affairs Officer Bradley Por told Council that a referendum on provincial affiliation would likely be held in April.
Several councillors saluted Toccalino’s initiative in increasing PGSS’s political presence, but some noted concern that this list of positions, which covers a set of social justice and fiscal policy issues and does not include stances already adopted by AVEQ, was not a good starting point.
“It’s a reasonable idea on the surface that PGSS have a new position book, but […] it’s being developed from ideas from AVEQ, which is an organization that we haven’t decided whether we want to be a part of yet, rather than coming from PGSS and PGSS members – it makes sense that our positions should be originating from within,” said Graduate Student Association of Neuroscience representative Brent Dawe.
“I know that this document is trying to start a conversation, but I’m not sure it’s the right start, because it seems to me that a lot of these positions lack nuance.”
Toccalino expressed that the list was not intended to be adopted as is, and more substantive policies on the respective topics would be written if PGSS were to adopt them.
“I really want things to come from the ground up, but there’s been a history at PGSS of very few things coming from the ground up,” said Toccalino. “There are things […] that other people bring from external parties that could be very well beneficial to our members, so […] it’s simply to get the discussion started.”
Equity Commissioner Régine Debrosse emphasized that many of the proposed positions would require detailed and nuanced examination before potential approval.
“A lot of these positions have to do with equity questions […] and reading these is a little bit hardcore,” said Debrosse. “I know that this document is trying to start a conversation, but I’m not sure it’s the right start, because it seems to me that a lot of these positions lack nuance – some of them are incomplete, some of them go against the work of some people on campus, some of them take sides on very big debates. […] It’s going to be a complicated discussion if it’s framed in terms of this document.”
The discussion was tabled indefinitely, with the understanding that councillors would consult with their constituencies regarding next steps. In addition, as part of a set of bylaw amendments, Council adopted the separation of the Policy and Positions Manual into two sets of documents, one containing internal policies and one containing external political positions.
Environment Commissioner Amir Nosrat brought to Council an updated version of the Environment Policy, the first such update since 2007.
The updated version was unanimously adopted.
“What’s happening here is an update of the language […] that’s needed to make the policy relevant to modern conceptions of environmental sustainability, and it also provides more specific actionable policy directives,” said Nosrat. “Primarily, it’s co-curricular education that really drives the policy, and there’s also […] advocating for policies that improve our communities, whether it be in a local setting or in a global setting.”
In the wake of an incident last November where a student was sued in order to destroy his Master’s thesis, Council adopted amendments to the University/Industry Research Partnerships policy, introducing additional conflict of interest disclosure requirements and stating PGSS’s opposition to “efforts by private corporations to revoke research publications or theses.”
Council also passed a short mental health policy focused on advocacy, and a statement of solidarity with students arrested at the Jawaharlal Nehru University in India.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Candidates, referendum campaigners talk with The Daily
Correction appended March 21.
The voting period for the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) General Elections has started. Seven candidates are running for six executive positions. In addition, there are two referendum questions regarding fee levies for the World University Service of Canada (WUSC) at McGill and the Legal Information Clinic at McGill (LICM).
The Daily sat down with the executive candidates to discuss their platforms, the high number of unopposed candidates, and the future of PGSS. The voting period runs from March 16 at 9 a.m. until March 25 at 5 p.m..
Of the six executive positions being elected, five have candidates running unopposed.
“It seems there has always been a disconnect between PGSS and its membership,” said Jenny Ann Pura, the Member Services Officer candidate. “Though this year reached an unprecedented low with regards to the number of candidacies, there have been only a few hotly contested elections in PGSS’s recent past.”
“An election where most of the positions are unopposed means that the election has turned into a formality,” said Mina Anadolu, current Internal Affairs Officer who is running unopposed for re-election.
“When they’re not given a choice, the majority of [voters] vote for the candidate because […] they think that a position is better filled than left empty,” said Anadolu.
“So that’s a problem because if someone comes in with very, very radical ideas, […] if they give specific power to only a specific minority of members, if they don’t represent the membership, then PGSS is at risk, because they can do whatever they want with the membership fees that we collect; they can run their own separate agenda,” she continued.
Asked about the reasons for low voter turnout and a lack of candidates, Anadolu said that post-graduate student engagement “hits a low in March” since students are finishing research and writing grant proposals. Nicholas Dunn, the candidate for Academic Affairs Officer, added that “a lot of people work out of different campuses as well,” and rarely spend time in Thomson House.
Mina Anadolu is the current Internal Affairs Officer, having been elected in December after the resignation of former Internal Affairs Officer Sahil Kumar. She is a second-year PhD student in neuroscience, and has been a student at McGill since the beginning of her undergraduate degree in 2009.
Anadolu’s platform focuses on increasing collaborative efforts with clubs and services, fact- and feedback-based decision making, and an inclusive events portfolio.
She told The Daily that she would collaborate with Walksafe and Drivesafe for events, especially to address the problem of students from the MacDonald campus getting home after nighttime events, once shuttles between campuses have stopped running. She would also implement a category system for events, to ensure that one event per semester would be planned under categories such as equity, sustainability, and international student affairs. Finally, Anadolu seeks to offer more workshops regarding securing funding and professional development.
The position of External Affairs Officer is the only contested one in this year’s elections. Jacob Lavigne, a third-year PhD student in experimental surgery, and Vertika, a first-year PhD student in political science, are competing for the position.
Lavigne was heavily involved in student politics at his previous university, and is a founder of the McGill Additive Manufacturing Students’ Society. Vertika is also a veteran student activist, who initiated a campaign against “ragging” (an extreme form of bullying by senior students toward incoming students) at the University of Delhi during her undergraduate studies.
When asked about the most important part of the role, Lavigne said it was to “represent the views of [the] constituency, and find a middle ground with other student associations.” He emphasized that he has been visiting graduate student offices and labs to speak to students about his platform, but, when asked, admitted that he had spoken mostly to Science students rather than Arts students.
For Vertika, the most important part of her job would be building a coalition within the Quebec student movement. “I want to make sure that students have enough platforms to be informed of what is going on and to actually engage,” she told The Daily.
Furthermore, Vertika argues that PGSS should be more political and wants “to make the political nature of the office visible to students and to encourage them.
“My role is firmly standing against depoliticizing PGSS. Spaces for political expression are clamped down on. I would work with the student body to work against that. If we’re just abstaining on most of the issues, that’s not going to help us,” she said.
Lavigne’s priorities include lobbying the government for increased research funds, as well as creating a PGSS award to recognize extracurricular involvement, which would be funded by industry or the government – he stressed that there is no need to use money from student fees. In addition, Lavigne plans on reaching out to his contacts in the Quartier de l’innovation de Montréal to organize events that could be of relevance to graduate students.
Victor Frankel is a current Environment Commissioner to PGSS and has been the PGSS representative to the Biology Department for several years. He is pursuing a PhD in ecology and evolutionary biology and has been a student at McGill since 2010.
Frankel stresses the importance of serving and engaging the students in PGSS as Secretary General. While he has not sat on the Board of Governors or the Senate, he often goes to these meetings to educate himself and understand the administrative processes involved. “I feel like what I want to do, most importantly, is serve the society, but I also feel like I bring qualities into it that are informed but also proactive in advocacy for students,” he added.
When asked what he will improve on as Secretary General, Frankel emphasized continuing the work of current PGSS Secretary General Danielle Toccalino in engaging students and re-establishing student confidence in PGSS. Consequently, he sees the role as one of ensuring a sense of continuity in existing programs while advancing new initiatives.
Frankel will also work on improving “the processes by which students at various faculties and departments can feel like they’re getting involved,” and ensuring that communications remain as transparent and streamlined as possible.
Regarding the large number of unopposed positions, Frankel pointed to the high level of responsibility and time commitment required. He also said that the “right people” are running for these positions and that students are confident in them.
Nicholas Dunn is a first-year PhD student in philosophy, with little experience in student government.
His priority is to increase the amount of work and study space for graduate students on campus, saying, “It’s kind of shocking how little space there is on campus for grad students to work.”
Dunn believes that the proposed renovation of the Redpath-McLennan library complex, termed Fiat Lux, would create much more student work space. Dunn says he would lobby to have a significant portion of that space dedicated to graduate students, such as rooms for graduate students to hold office hours and group meetings, and lock up personal belongings.
Asked about how he would strive for more funding for graduate students in a climate of austerity, Dunn said he believes there is “not much that can be done,” since the majority of McGill’s budget is “untouchable” and the University’s “hands are tied.” Instead, he said he would explore alternate sources of funding. Dunn also plans on paring down inactive committees, and promoting committees that are more active in their place.
Mina Moradi is a second year student pursuing a Master’s degree in human nutrition and dietetics. Her experience includes being head manager of the Loghman Hakim hospital in Tehran for two years.
In an email to The Daily, Moradi described her plans to resubmit the question to increase the PGSS membership fee to graduate students in Fall 2016, which was brought up earlier this year. “If it passed it would greatly improve the health of our finances and allow us to provide better services to our members,” she explained.
Moradi also noted the tension between preserving PGSS’s essential services and making necessary spending cuts. “I believe that my past work experience gives me the skill to manage this complex situation,” said Moradi.
After a four-year-long court case between PGSS and the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS), PGSS has been left with a significant deficit. However, at last month’s Council meeting, councillors were unable to agree over the severity of the deficit, with some citing $277,779 and others citing $611,000. Asked about which number she agrees with, Moradi said, “I won’t venture to pick a side before looking closely at the numbers myself.”
“It is possible the waters may have been muddied by conflicting views over the years. I believe it would help to look at the situation with a fresh pair of eyes,” she continued.
Jenny Ann Pura, a PhD student in experimental surgery, has been involved in PGSS since 2012, when she was VP External of the Experimental Surgery Graduate Student Society and a representative at PGSS council.
In an email to The Daily, Pura explained that “In a time of austerity for universities and deficits for PGSS, the services offered to students are in peril.”
“More than ever, the [Member Services Officer] will have to be strong and creative to protect the budget lines dedicated to services and to make sure the funds are used as efficiently as possible,” she continued. “Student services are not a luxury; they are necessities.”
Asked about her plans for the role, Pura said she would offer professional networking and development opportunities to members, and would work closely with Lavigne, if elected, on his plan to “reach out to his contacts in the [Quartier de l’innovation de Montréal] to set up workshops and information sessions.”
Members of PGSS will be voting on two referendum questions over the next week.
WUSC has brought forth a referendum question to increase the levy from $0.50 to $2.00 per student per semester. This increase would allow WUSC to continue their Student Refugee Program.
“Should the fee pass, we will be sponsoring three students each year for [the] next five years,” said Sujay Neupane, a member of WUSC McGill, in an email to The Daily. “If the fee is not passed, we will be able to sponsor only one student every alternate year as of 2018.”
The sponsored students are funded in their first 12 months in Canada to cover their tuition fees, living expenses, food and a small stipend. “This year, we will welcome Syrian students for the first time,” said Neupane.
The Legal Information Clinic at McGill (LICM)’s student advocacy service is a free, law student-run service providing McGill students and members of the Montreal community with legal information and referrals, as well as document certification.
The fee paid by PGSS students has not been increased since 1990, and Marilyn Venney, senior advocate at LICM, told The Daily in an email that the levy would be used to increase and improve existing services. “For example, we would consider moving the Legal Information Clinic to a bigger space, which would allow us to serve more clients on a faster timeline,” said Venney.
“If the fee levy doesn’t pass, we might be forced to reduce some of the services that Student Advocacy currently provides to grad students,” Venney said.
These include representing graduate students in informal dispute resolution procedures when they face a breakdown in communication with their supervisor, and in accusations of academic offences like plagiarism or cheating, as well as helping them appeal withdrawals.
A previous version of this article indicated that Vertika helped launch a campaign against “dragging” at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). In fact, Vertika launched a campaign against “ragging” at the University of Delhi, where she did her undergraduate studies. The Daily regrets the error. 
The Daily’s endorsements for the PGSS referendum questions can be found here.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Gladue principle seeks to “equalize” application of laws
On Tuesday March 15, a panel event called “Gladue Courts” was held at McGill’s Faculty of Law to discuss how Indigenous people are treated in the Canadian criminal justice system.
Organized by law students Lana Belber and Alice Mirlesse, with support from the Aboriginal Law Students’ Association and SSMU Indigenous Affairs, the event specifically sought to shed light on an often neglected aspect of sentencing in Canadian criminal law — the Gladue principle — which seeks to alleviate the over-incarceration of Indigenous people.
Among the panelists was Aidan Johnson, a former lawyer at Legal Aid Ontario who has regularly represented Indigenous people in the past. Johnson explained that the Gladue decision of the Supreme Court of Canada led to a change in the Criminal Code which requires judges and lawyers to pay particular attention to the unique history and circumstances of Indigenous people. It particularly requires that alternatives to jail time be considered when an Indigenous person is sentenced following a conviction.
“Concern for the over-representation of Aboriginal peoples in jails is a factor underpinning Gladue law,” Johnson explained. “Aboriginal people don’t get a fair shake in the justice system, the rules are not applied equally to them, so Gladue is an equalizing measure.”
The panelists expressed frustration with the legal community’s response to implementing the Gladue principle. Vivien Carli, program manager of the Ungaluk Safer Communities Program at Makivik Corporation, explained that there are few people properly trained to write Gladue reports, and that those who are face time constraints.
“To give you an idea, the Gladue writer is given 20 hours to write a report. […] You have 20 hours to go in, often in a detention center, and talk to someone who you have never met before, and get them to open up and tell you about all their trauma and family history – maybe for the first time in their life. You can imagine the challenges.”
Wayne Robinson, who, with Carli, recently founded the First People’s Justice Centre (FPJC) of Montreal, explained the importance of community organizations filling in the gaps beyond Gladue reports.
“You have 20 hours to go in, often in a detention center, and talk to someone who you have never met before, and get them to open up and tell you about all their trauma and family history – maybe for the first time in their life. You can imagine the challenges.”
“After the Gladue report [is written], the writer leaves, and we’ve opened up a trauma there and there’s no continuum of service,” said Robinson. “The FPJC provides a continuum of service from pre-offence to post-incarceration for Indigenous offenders, ensuring that Gladue is not just a tool to talk about sentencing, but as a more holistic approach.
Mirlesse, a second year law student at McGill, explained to The Daily that the original idea for the event emerged from an assignment that second year law students were given regarding Gladue principles. The organizers wanted to “give an opportunity to reflect on these principles and what they meant for the community,” Mirlesse said. Mirlesse added that, without sufficient context, through which students could be made aware of the colonial and racist legacies of Canadian legislation, there was “too big of a risk for students to perpetuate stereotypes of colonization and racial prejudice.”
André Moreau, a Metis student in his first year of McGill law school who attended the event told The Daily, “I thought it was really nice to see different points of view, from the policing side to the community side, even a more legal side.”
“Gladue is definitely a starting point. There has to be some sort of method to address this issue when it comes to justice. However it is a broader issue with access to healthcare and education as well, because they all go hand in hand at the end of the day,” Moreau said.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
No arrests or kettling at the 20th annual march 
At 8 p.m. on March 15, over 500 people gathered to participate in Montreal’s annual march against police brutality. In stark contrast to the previous year’s march, where more than 90 people were kettled, not a single protester was detained or assaulted by the police, and the event ended peacefully at around 9:30 p.m.
Meeting at Rachel and Garnier on the corner of Parc La Fontaine, protesters heard a series of speeches before marching southwest toward the downtown area.
“Until the killing, the occupation, the profiling and the abuse come to an end, there will always be an anti-police brutality demonstration.”
Addressing the crowd in both French and English, organizers pointed to the fact that over 1,000 people in the U.S. alone were murdered by police in 2015, and made reference to the numerous instances of police violence committed with impunity against marginalized communities across the globe.
“Until the killing, the occupation, the profiling and the abuse come to an end, there will always be an anti-police brutality demonstration,” said one organizer. “We are not powerless. We will always outnumber them.”
Many people present said that they had personally experienced police violence.
“We’re here because we’ve experienced police brutality,” one protester, who wished to remain anonymous, told The Daily. “We think it’s unfair […] that a certain segment of the population […] is able to use violence against us when we’re doing nothing wrong.”
“We don’t have the right to express our opinions, and I think that’s really sad.”
“Certain people are [attacking city property] but they’re a minority. […] We don’t have the right to express our opinions, and I think that’s really sad,” the protester continued.
“But I’m really surprised,” another protester told The Daily, roughly 45 minutes into the march, “because it’s unusual for [the police] to let us march for such a long time. […] Last year [at the anti-police brutality march] I got pepper sprayed and hit with a police baton.”
Protesters adjusted their route when they were blocked by squad cars, police on bicycles, and riot lines. Marching west on Sherbrooke from La Fontaine to St. Denis, they briefly turned south before continuing west on Ste. Catherine.
Police presence was light compared to previous protests, although roughly a dozen officers on horseback followed throughout the march. Many activists expressed surprise at the police allowing the march to continue, since an itinerary had not been provided, making the event illegal under the controversial municipal bylaw P-6.
“Protesters didn’t have a planned march route because most of them expected police to shut down the protest minutes after it started.”
According to the Toronto Star, “protesters didn’t have a planned march route because most of them expected police to shut down the protest minutes after it started.” At last year’s anti-police brutality protest, riot police kettled the demonstrators at an underpass near Berri and Ontario, barely ten minutes after they began marching. On that occasion 95 people were arrested or ticketed, including student journalists from the Link who had been covering the event.
One protester, who also preferred to remain anonymous, expressed guarded optimism based on the police’s relative restraint. “I think that since the death of Fredy Villanueva, and the 2012 [student] strike, there’s been more open discussion [of police brutality] and a certain amount of anger against Quebec law enforcement. People are trusting them less and less, and to a certain extent, they’re no longer willing to […] injure and kill as arbitrarily as they used to,” they said.
“People are trusting them less and less, and to a certain extent, they’re no longer willing to […] injure and kill as arbitrarily as they used to.”
At roughly 9:30 p.m., the march ended peacefully at Cabot Square near the Atwater metro station.
No marchers were detained or assaulted, and no tickets were issued that night.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panel examines physician-assisted dying in wake of Carter v. Canada 
On March 15, the Freethought Association at McGill hosted a panel discussion on the recent recommendations of Parliament’s special joint committee on physician-assisted dying.
The panel consisted of Susan Desjardins, head of the Ottawa chapter of Dying with Dignity Canada, Jean-Pierre Ménard, a lawyer specializing in medical responsibility, and Carolyn Ells, an associate professor of the biomedical ethics unit at McGill.
“One of the key societal issues of our generation.”
The panel discussed the legal, ethical, and philosophical implications of physician-assisted death in Canada. Topics included the expansion of end-of-life choices and the right to avoid unwanted suffering, as well as the evolution of Canadian legislation on medically-assisted suicide.
Labelling it “one of the key societal issues of our generation,” Desjardins underscored the societal duty to reflect on the right to die with dignity and the importance of continuing the discourse on palliative care.
Ménard discussed the history of Canadian legislation on assisted death. “In Quebec […] we gradually realized, with the evolution of medicine, that the right to die can indeed be a human decision,” he said in French.
Passed in 2014, Bill 52, otherwise known as an act respecting end-of-life care, made Quebec the first province in Canada to legalize physician-assisted death. While recognizing that Quebec is more advanced than other provinces in terms of legislation on euthanasia, Ménard stressed, “Quebec law is still more restrictive than what it ought to be. It doesn’t go far enough.”
“All Canadians should have the same right to avoid ‘[euthanasia] tourism’ in Quebec,” he added. Euthanasia tourism, also known as suicide tourism, refers to people travelling to places where euthanasia is legal in order to receive physician-assisted death.
“Quebec law is still more restrictive than what it ought to be. It doesn’t go far enough.”
Ells, who testified before the Parliament’s special joint committee, analyzed some of the contentious eligibility criteria recommended by the committee’s report, which widens the scope of eligibility to potentially include capable minors, and states that mental illness should not preclude eligibility.
“I take the view that the people’s ability to consent should be the driving factor in whether they are granted the authority to consent on their own behalf to assisted death,” Ells said.
Sofia Voloshina, an International Development Studies student who attended the event, agreed with Ells.
“I believe that individual[s] should be free to decide what to do with their bodies even if it is about ending their lives.”
Speaking to The Daily, Voloshina said, “I believe that individual[s] should be free to decide what to do with their bodies even if it is about ending their lives. When the quality of life is very low, when someone is in constant pain and suffering and there is no hope for their condition to get better, they should have a right to ask a physician [to assist] them to take their lives.”
In spite of the decision of Carter v. Canada (Attorney General) on February 6, 2015, in which the Supreme Court recognized the right to assisted death for competent adults suffering intolerably, the access to such medical assistance remains restricted in most Canadian provinces.
“The individual who meets the eligibility criteria in Carter still has to hire a lawyer to prepare an application and all the associated affidavits,” Desjardins explained.
She continued, “Our work is not done. Despite the court’s decision, the recommendations, and pending legislation, there are a minority of people who are still opposed to medical assistance in dying.”
“Despite the court’s decision, the recommendations, and pending legislation, there are a minority of people who are still opposed to medical assistance in dying.”
The Supreme Court issued a deadline of June 6 for Parliament to enact a new bill, thus new legislation on the matter is expected to be enacted by this summer.
Mila Ghorayeb, Vice President of McGill Freethought Association at McGill and an organizer of the panel, told The Daily, “Something that we’ve been worried about lately is that the discourse on assisted suicide has been overly influenced by dogmatic thinking. […] So we need to take a step back and continue the conversation.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Stein shares her experience to help others struggling with gender identity
On March 14, around 150 people gathered in the McIntyre Medical building to attend a speech given by Abby Stein, a trans woman studying Women’s and Gender Studies at Columbia University.
Stein came out as a trans woman through her blog The Second Transition in August 2015. Her posts about her struggles with gender identity as a woman from an ultra-orthodox background have gone viral.
The event was organized by Hillel Montreal, Ghetto Shul, Ga’ava, JQueer, and Queer Engineer.
At the event, Stein spoke about her childhood in an orthodox Hasidic community in New York City and how the community’s seclusion affected her experience as a trans person.
She told the audience, “I didn’t even know any gay people. The only way I knew gay people existed was because around 2005, when the battle for gay marriage started in New York, there were some people in the community who started fighting it.”
“Even in very sheltered communities where they don’t know anything, [information] has to get out, and it has to get in.”
After she came out as a trans woman, Stein realized that this would impact not only her life, but also other trans people in orthodox communities.
“Even in very sheltered communities where they don’t know anything, [information] has to get out, and it has to get in. People in the community should know that,” Stein said.
In an interview with The Daily regarding her outreach work, Stein said, “The main reason – and it’s the same reason why I’ve been doing a lot of outreach work – is first of all, just the fact of getting people to talk about these topics. […] I would say the main part is the gender transition, but it’s also about raising awareness about the ultra-orthodox community,” she said.
“I would say the main part is the gender transition, but it’s also about raising awareness about the ultra-orthodox community.”
Stein added that she is also speaking “for the Jewish community specifically, as well as the entire student community in general about these issues. As much as we think that there’s a lot in the media right now, a lot of it is misrepresented. I feel like it’s always good to hear from another student. I don’t think I have any authority here. I’m not coming here as a public figure, I’m just coming here as a student to talk to fellow students,” she said.
When asked about the main message she wants to give students facing similar difficulties to those she has experienced, Stein said, “For students who are struggling, the most important message is to know we are here.”
Stein continued, “Your feelings, emotions, whatever you feel, they are valid, you are not alone. […] Everyone is different. […] I haven’t seen two exact same trans stories. We are all here, we understand and there are so many people who would like to help.”
“For students who are struggling, the most important message is to know we are here.”
Joanna Halpern, a U3 Software Engineering student at McGill and one of the organizers of the event, told The Daily, “So many of us have different identities. Each one is unique and each one needs to be figured out and focused on. Abby is such an inspiration [for] being yourself and finding who you are. It’s a journey, it’s a process.”
When asked what she thinks McGill students’ role as allies should be, Halpern responded that it’s to “show that you are accepting and you’ll accept everyone however they are.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
