The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“Smoking shelters” proposed against secondhand smoke
A Senate ad-hoc working group held a town hall on February 11 to discuss the possibility of making McGill a “smoke-free” campus. Students showed up to express their views on the issue, and to argue the benefits and costs of instituting policies that would ban smoking on campus.
According to a January survey conducted by a senate caucus smoking working group, 63.9 per cent of students would “strongly support” moving toward a “smoke-free” campus. 46.4 per cent felt strongly that secondhand smoke was a problem on campus.
At a January 28 meeting, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council voted to approve a plebiscite question to be asked in the Winter 2016 referendum period: “Would you support McGill becoming a smoke-free campus if smoking cessation resources were provided and there were ongoing educational campaigns?”
“Seriously, if I can buy cigarettes I should be able to smoke them. It’s my campus, too.”
The call for a smoking ban on campus results mainly from complaints regarding areas around McGill that attract greater numbers of smokers. These areas are often directly outside entrances to libraries and student buildings: the Redpath Tunnel, the Bronfman building entrance, the Law library entrance, and the Shatner building entrance.
The smoking working group’s proposal aims not only to address what should be done about smoking on campus, but also specifically to address stress and social smoking. Working with partners like Healthy McGill, the proposal would hope to curb smoking by making information on quitting widely available, while adopting a harm reduction approach to helping students quit smoking.
Another facet of the working group’s plan includes the building of temporary “smoking shelters,” designated areas where students can smoke in the winter while also reducing other students’ exposure to secondhand smoke.
Similar shelters are already being installed in Melbourne, Australia. These shelters would potentially be used as bike shelters in the summer, and would be fitted with ashtrays.
Town hall participants raised the question of whether e-cigarettes would be included in a campus smoking ban. Often considered a smoking cessation tool, some argued that e-cigarettes and vaporizers should be exempt from the ban, as part of a harm reduction policy.
Students were given the chance to post anonymous comments following the completion of the aforementioned smoking survey. Many of the comments cited health concerns of non-smokers as arguments against smoking on campus.
“I suffer from chronic migraines and cigarette smoke is one of my biggest triggers. As soon as I smell a strong whiff of it or smell it constantly, I get severe pounding pain in my head and I have to lie down and take medication. It is very disconcerting that the laws of smoking prohibition aren’t being followed at all, and there is no enforcement of these laws,” an anonymous respondent said.
According to the Quebec Tobacco Control Act, “Smoking is prohibited outdoors within a nine-metre radius from any door leading to […] a university building.” Since September 2014, the restrictions on smoking outlined in McGill’s smoking policy have also been applied to the use of e-cigarettes. 76 per cent of survey respondents felt that the University should enforce its current smoking policies.
Not all comments on the survey supported the ban. Many argued that banning smoking is categorically unfair, and doesn’t take into account students’ rights.
“This [initiative] isn’t about policing individual behaviour. It’s about asking ourselves what we can do to best ensure that students’ overall health and wellness is promoted, and a lot of students do say that secondhand smoke is an issue on campus.”
“School is stressful. I like smoking cigarettes. Don’t take that away from me. The campus is large, and making it entirely smoke-free would be a huge inconvenience for people who want to smoke, especially after dark. Who is standing around inhaling second-degree smoke in the winter? Seriously, if I can buy cigarettes I should be able to smoke them. It’s my campus, too,” said a another anonymous respondent.
Speaking to The Daily, David Benrimoh, Medicine senator and member of the smoking working group said, “This [initiative] isn’t about policing individual behaviour. It’s about asking ourselves what we can do to best ensure that students’ overall health and wellness is promoted, and a lot of students do say that secondhand smoke is an issue on campus.”
The presentation noted that if a mandate is adopted to work with McGill on a smoke-free campus, this would involve an implementation period of at least three years.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Event series explores “Art and Resistance”
Last week, from February 11 to February 14, the McGill chapter of the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) hosted an instalment of the Social Justice Days event series. This was the eleventh time the event series was held.
The theme for this year’s Social Justice Days was “Art and Resistance,” featuring events such as a panel discussion on art as resistance and a workshop on the revolution in Northern Syria, among many others. The event series concluded with the Self-Love Cabaret on February 14.
Speaking to The Daily, Kiera Sheppard, a U2 Philosophy and Women’s Studies student and Campus Outreach Coordinator at QPIRG-McGill, talked about how the Social Justice Days event series is organized.
“I got involved with QPIRG by volunteering for the Popular Education Committee,” Sheppard said. “It’s the committee that organizes all the events that we put on, [including] Culture Shock and Social Justice Days.”
“We’re exploring different artistic and creative ways of engaging in social justice organizing and also looking at art and creative practices as a form of resistance in themselves,” Sheppard continued.
By working on Social Justice Days this year, Sheppard hoped to contribute to fostering an alternative political culture and allow students to develop new concrete skills.
“We’re exploring different artistic and creative ways of engaging in social justice organizing and also looking at art and creative practices as a form of resistance in themselves.”
“If, as a campus, we have a goal of creating a more equitable environment, I personally think that free educational events […] are an extremely effective way to go about [that],” Sheppard said.
Amy Darwish, a member of the Working Groups and Community Research Committee of QPIRG-McGill, has been working on the event with other organizers since November.
In an interview with The Daily, Darwish said, “I feel like it’s an important opportunity for students to be able to connect with both on-campus social justice issues [and] community struggles happening beyond campus gates.”
For Raphaële Frigon, the outreach and promotion coordinator at QPIRG-McGill, Social Justice Days is “one of the rare outlets where McGill students can learn about equity programs and what the working groups at QPIRG do.”
Speaking to The Daily, Frigon said, “This year we’re focusing on art, creativity, and resistance. It’s not just about the struggle, but also the positive things that come out of it. […] It’s about the new and novel ways in which people organize and create in the face of difficult situations.”
Arno Zilouchi, a U1 Philosophy and Political Science student, told The Daily, “I think Social Justice Days are a good way for anyone from any background to come and explore […]the different social issues discussed and fought [for] on campus.”
Zilouchi continued, “It’s a good way for people to inform themselves, join social justice movements, build movements, and mostly think for themselves. It is also good for people to gather and achieve things together, especially by forming a community that thinks like them or challenges them on intellectual and human grounds.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Organizers seek to bridge divide between students and residents
On Sunday, February 7, about sixty McGill students and residents of the Milton-Parc community gathered at the Milton-Parc Community Centre to discuss solutions to Montreal’s reliance on fossil fuels.
The consultation meeting was organized by the Educational Community Living Environment (ECOLE) project, the Milton Park Recreation Association, the Office de consultation publique de Montréal (OCPM), and the Société de développement communautaire Milton-Parc.
Speaking to The Daily, Dimitri Roussopoulos, an activist in the community and one of the organizers, explained that the meeting sought to prepare for the public consultations that are being organized by the OCPM as well as to bring people from the community together.
Acording to an October 15 announcement on the OCPM’s website, Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre mandated the OCPM in June, 2015 to consult on “concrete, ambitious and achievable solutions to Montreal’s dependence on fossil fuels.” The first phase of the consultation process ran from October to January. The second phase is currently underway, and will continue until March.
The consultation meeting was structured around five themes, focusing on reducing dependence on fossil fuels in transportation, buildings, industry, personal lifestyle, and municipal services.
In an interview with The Daily, Guy Grenier, who worked with the OCPM, explained the vision of the event.
“The basic idea was to give Montrealers a say in this topic. It impacts everyone, so we work very hard to try to reach everyone to get the opinion of every Montrealer,” Grenier said.
But Roussopoulos emphasized that the event wanted to “go beyond simply talking about climate change and to talk about system change. […] In other words, what really has to change in our society in order for us to live in harmony with nature, rather than being at war with nature, which is what our society is engaged in now,” Roussopoulos said.
“People are willing to act and that’s making me more optimistic, and I feel I’m not alone in what I think of those things. So it’s going to prompt me to be more active in the future.”
Participants were asked to sit at French, English, or bilingual tables in order to discuss fossil fuel challenges that they are particularly interested in and potential solutions to those challenges. Presentations of the discussions to the wider group – which were translated to ensure that speakers of both languages were able to understand – discussed a variety of topics, such as public transportation, food consumption, bike infrastructure, presence of large delivery trucks, and urban agriculture.
Alongside the discussion of climate change, Roussopoulos said the event aimed to “bring people from the Milton-Parc community together, and to connect them with the students on the McGill campus; for them to get to know each other – because they don’t.”
Grenier outlined various other ways for how people can get involved in the consultation process. “They can participate in the creative marathon, they can organize a consultation group – we have a do-it-yourself consultation kit, they can write a [memorandum], or just present themselves to a public hearing and ask to take the [microphone].”
Event participant Caroline Dionne, who has a PhD in History and Theory of Architecture from McGill, noted pollution and a lack of green space in the community as major concerns.
Dionne told The Daily, “People are willing to act and that’s making me more optimistic, and I feel I’m not alone in what I think of those things. So it’s going to prompt me to be more active in the future.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
At its meeting on February 10, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council passed a number of administrative motions and discussed possible renovations to the Leacock building.
First, Council voted unanimously to approve the funding allocations decided upon at the February 10 meeting of the Arts Undergraduate Improvement Fund Committee. Expenditures for the coming year include new couches for the Arts Lounge and equipment for SNAX. The full list of allocations is available on the AUS website.
Following this, an amendment to the AUS Financial Bylaws was approved unanimously.
“Say the VP Academic funds your peer tutoring program. We would expect you to write something in your listserv [thanking them for the funding].”
Its purpose, explained VP Academic and one of the movers of the motion Gabriel Gilling, was to make sure that when “any unit […] receives funding from the AUS […] we just ask for a public recognition that the fund comes from us.”
“For example,” said Gilling, “say the VP Academic funds your peer tutoring program. We would expect you to write something in your listserv [thanking them for the funding].”
Council also voted in favour of a motion scheduling both a referendum period and a departmental election period in March. Questions for the former may be submitted no later than February 26, and candidates for the latter will be nominated between March 10 and March 16, with a potential extended nomination period going until March 18. Voting in both the referendum and elections will take place during the last week of March.
AUS President Jacob Greenspon presented various proposals for renovations to the Leacock building, which could be implemented in coming years, and which would be financed through the AUS reserve funds.
“The main focus here is on public spaces,” said Greenspon, explaining that the basement, ground floor, and second floor of Leacock experience “some of the heaviest traffic [of any McGill building],” and “aren’t used very efficiently right now.”
“Some of the heaviest traffic [of any McGill building…] aren’t used very efficiently right now.”
Proposals include adding a substantial study area with tables beside SNAX (though this would contravene the temporary Memorandum of Agreement regarding the student-run shop), reducing the number of computers on the ground floor, and creating comfortable lounge areas in various high-traffic spots.
A motion to adopt a revised constitution for the Computer Science Undergraduate Society was postponed in order for new amendments to be added.
VP Finance Mirza Ali Shakir told Council that sandwiches should be back in SNAX this week. Shakir said there has been a slight delay in order to ensure that the shop is meeting the highest standards of hygiene.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
1968 chairperson of political science association talks to The Daily
On November 26, 1968, the McGill Political Science Association (PSA) went on strike to protest lack of student input in curriculum and hiring, as well as a lack of diverse political opinions in syllabi. Political Science students occupied the fourth floor of the Leacock building for ten days, with the strike ending in a student victory. Arnold August was one of the leaders of the strike and chairperson of the PSA at the time, and is now an author, journalist, and lecturer. Following a panel discussion organized by the Political Science Students’ Association (PSSA) on February 8, August spoke to The Daily about parallels between the 1968 strike and the 2012 Maple Spring strike, as well as the challenges of student mobilization.
The McGill Daily (MD): Could you speak to the parallels between the 1968 student strike and that of the 2012 student strikes?
Arnold August (AA): I think the important thing was – and this is similar to the student [movement] in 2012 – that it was a grassroots movement. And there was leadership, of course, but it was a collective leadership. It wasn’t based on individual personalities.
Now, in 2012 […] you had a very small group of students who were encouraged by the Liberal Party, by the Quebec judicial system – the courts – to get injunctions against the picket lines. The only argument that these students had was “I have a right to my education.”
As they were breaking through the picket lines with the help of the police, the students who were in favour of the strike were taunting them, “je, me, moi.” In French that means, basically, “me, myself, and I.” In other words, they were only concerned with their own well-being and completely oblivious of the collective well-being of students.
“In other words, they were only concerned with their own well-being and completely oblivious of the collective well-being of students.”
Students then, in 2012 as in 1968, were not just demanding, in our case, a more pluralistic series of subjects, but we also wanted the University to be not oblivious to what’s happening in society. And that was also one of the main demands put forward by the student movement in 2012. It was not just for the students, but for the future of Quebec society. In this case students had the right […] not to be indebted for years to come because of an education.
MD: In 1968, you said students voted “overwhelmingly” for the strike, whereas in 2012, only 3 per cent of McGill students were on strike. What was it about the political climate or the demographic of students in 1968 that allowed for that kind of mass mobilization?
AA: In McGill in 1968, there were other activities taking place for the CEGEP strike at virtually the same time. You also had the struggle against the war in Vietnam […] in the U.S. as well as in Canada and Europe. So at McGill, even if we may have been a bit detached from the rest of Quebec, this student movement […] was so engulfing that it overrode any difference that might exist between McGill and the rest of Quebec society. It was more of a global situation.
“So at McGill, even if we may have been a bit detached from the rest of Quebec, this student movement […] was so engulfing that it overrode any difference that might exist between McGill and the rest of Quebec society.”
I was very influenced in terms of the U.S. attempt to smother the revolution in Cuba – [I was] against U.S. interference in that country. And, of course, what struck me the most in 1967, 1968, which formed my thinking, was the war in Vietnam. Not too long after that, you had four students who were killed at Kent State University for protesting against the war in Vietnam.
Also in ‘67 and ‘68, there were draft-dodgers from the United States who came to Montreal, some of whom became students at McGill University. So, you see, it was a worldwide movement at the time.
MD: There’s a lot of student apathy, elitism, and privilege insulating McGill students from societal issues, and universities are inherently hierarchical institutions. How does this hinder student mobilization?
AA: I think that’s true – inherent in McGill. It’s very oligarchical, very elitist, it’s a wealthy university. […] But this also creates a contradiction within itself. Even though it’s an “elite” university, and that the students who attend here are perhaps a bit better off than students in other universities, they’re still youth. And youth necessarily are looking to their future, for a better future. […]
Generally, youth are looking at how to change things, they more easily identify injustices. Whereas the older generation is more prone to accepting that this is the way it is, they don’t get shocked by what’s happening in wars, and people being killed, or, for example, the Israeli occupation.
“Generally, youth are looking at how to change things, they more easily identify injustices.”
MD: What advice would you give to students trying to mobilize at McGill, and beyond their university careers?
AA: I’m talking to you about that experience [of the 1968 student strike] almost five decades later – you don’t forget it. I still have the same ideas now that I had in 1968. They called me a Marxist revolutionary – yeah, I’m proud to be.
I’ve been able to expand my objectives to go way beyond the two- or three-year experience at McGill. […] I think the most important thing is to not give up on your principles. I had my principles in the 1960s, and I have the same ideas now.
“They called me a Marxist revolutionary – yeah, I’m proud to be.”
The university administration is very aware that people are only here for three or four years, and they try to weather the storm […] but then other young people are coming to university as well, with the same ideas, the same aspirations.
Students come and go, but the principles of youth – against the status quo, in favour of justice, against aggression – that’s permanent.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Uber needs to be regulated, Uber driver says
On Wednesday, February 10, Montreal taxi and limousine drivers occupied the Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport to protest the popular ride-hailing provider Uber. The one-day strike included drivers working for Taxi Champlain and hundreds of other drivers from the Montreal taxi industry who consider Uber to be an illegal service.
A similar strike was also planned in Toronto on Friday, February 12, during the rush hour of the NBA All-Star Weekend, but was later called off.
The Montreal taxi industry has recently filed a request for an injunction to permanently cease Uber’s operations and deactivate the company’s mobile app throughout Montreal.
“It says you need to share transport but you just share your gas. But giving calls to somebody who’s taking you from point A to point B is clearly taxi business.”
Benoit Jugand, who is the spokesperson for the taxi drivers union Regroupement des travailleurs autonomes Métallo, in an interview with Metro, said that Uber is separate from ride-sharing, and thus illegal.
“Ride-sharing is well-defined with the transportation law,” Jugand said. “It says you need to share transport but you just share your gas. But giving calls to somebody who’s taking you from point A to point B is clearly taxi business,” he said.
“It’s not normal that the industry must take care of what’s supposed to be done by the government. […] It’s simple: taxi is legal and Uber is illegal. The law says it. The law is clear. We simply want the law to be applied.”
A current Uber driver, who is a former taxi driver and wished to remain anonymous, told The Daily in French that although Uber is not regulated, he believes that Uber’s operations should be considered legal.
“As [Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard implied], Uber is uncontrollable. So, it just has to be regulated. He didn’t mention the word ‘illegal.’ It’s just regulations.”
“It’s not illegal, it’s just not regulated. […] As [Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard implied], Uber is uncontrollable. So, it just has to be regulated. He didn’t mention the word ‘illegal.’ It’s just regulations,” he said.
However, UberX, a service that allows non-professional drivers to transport passengers in personal cars for less than standard taxi fare, has been called “illegal” by Montreal mayor Denis Coderre and by the Quebec government.
“In the taxi industry, we have taxi inspectors, and we should not confuse them with police officers, because people think that it’s the police who give tickets to [UberX]. […] It’s the taxi inspectors who detect [UberX] cars, and they have the right to seize a car […] and write a $500 ticket. And of course, Uber deals with all of this,” the anonymous Uber driver said.
As of October 2015, taxi drivers in Montreal are required to comply with a new bylaw that mandates that all taxis accept credit and debit cards. Before that point, many taxis only accepted cash.
“I think that all that taxi drivers are looking for is cash,” said the Uber driver. “With cash, we can never know, the government can never control the industry. I find it’s the opposite with Uber: if they regulate it and reach an agreement so that each transaction is real, at the end of the month we have all the transactions, and our taxes can be paid without any issues.”
“[Uber is] only illegal because the regulations are designed to […] have one provider […] for this type of taxi service, which is really unfair because it limits choice and quality for consumers.”
Justin Hatherly, a U2 History student, told The Daily that although he believes the legality of Uber is “in limbo right now […] Uber should be legalized.”
“[Uber is] only illegal because the regulations are designed to […] have one provider […] for this type of taxi service, which is really unfair because it limits choice and quality for consumers,” said Hatherly.
“[But] fairness is relative. It can seem very unfair to people who’ve paid […] to buy their taxi license. But if you justify that, you could basically justify every other interest or wanting the same level of protection to the […] economy as a whole.”
Hatherly commented that the government should compensate for the declining value of taxi licenses. “What I think has to be done is that the government should buy out taxi drivers from their licenses because they did pay a lot of money for them, but after the buyout, that’s it, we’re not allowing people to get these licenses anymore,” Hatherly suggested.
“It affects the taxi drivers very negatively, because they see more competition, they lose market share, they’re probably having fewer customers than they did prior to Uber.”
Hatherly continued, “It affects the taxi drivers very negatively, because they see more competition, they lose market share, they’re probably having fewer customers than they did prior to Uber. But maybe it will put pressure on them to offer a better service.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Referendum question on creating $2.75 Club Fund fee to be asked
On February 11, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council met to discuss ten motions and two notices of motion. The motion regarding constitutional amendments was struck and tabled for the next Council meeting.
During its last meeting on January 28, Council had discussed the potential of joining one of two Quebec student federations, the Association pour la voix étudiante au Québec (AVEQ) or the Union étudiante du Québec (UEQ). In her report to Council, VP External Emily Boytinck stated that there “appeared to be little interest” in continuing SSMU’s involvement in UEQ.
A motion was brought to Council to vote on whether the question of joining AVEQ should be posed during the Winter 2016 referendum period. Joining AVEQ would result in a non-opt-outable student fee of $3.50 per student per semester.
“What if we were to give this $100,000 per semester to one student federation that ends up failing? How can we tell that to our students?”
Boytinck introduced the motion, saying, “This has been an ongoing process since before my term even started and […] I think that this association can provide a lot of amazing benefits to students.”
Arts and Sciences Representative Matthew Satterthwaite was strongly against the motion, and was mandated by the Bachelor of Arts and Science Integrative Council (BASiC) to vote against this motion. Satterthwaite reported that the BASiC wants SSMU to postpone the affiliation process with AVEQ until the 2016-17 academic year, when AVEQ has had more time to develop its mandate.
Satterthwaite explained that asking students to vote on this question before AVEQ’s mandate is fully developed is “quite frankly a waste of money and a waste of time.”
However, Boytinck responded saying that AVEQ is not in the process of developing its mandate, as it was voted on in May.
Medicine Representative Joshua Chin echoed Satterthwaite’s sentiments in wanting to postpone affiliation to AVEQ and was also mandated to oppose the motion by the Medical Students’ Society (MSS).
Chin further shared his personal concern that AVEQ may end up failing. “What if we were to give this $100,000 per semester to one student federation that ends up failing? How can we tell that to our students?” he said.
Addressing the idea of postponing the question of affiliation, Boytinck said this “is essentially asking other students in Quebec to fund this organization while we make up our mind. To me, I don’t think that that’s fair. I don’t think that’s a good show of solidarity.”
The motion passed with seventeen votes in favour, five opposed, and two abstentions.
When the motion regarding the renewal of the McGill Writing Centre ancillary fee was brought to Council, many councillors became concerned about the nature of an ancillary fee.
According to VP Finance & Operations Zacheriah Houston, the McGill Writing Centre ancillary fee is a “University fee [that the University is] asking us to renew, which is why I am obligated to bring this up to you.”
According to section 7, part II, article 6.3 of the SSMU Internal Regulations of the Finance and Operations Portfolio, “The Legislative Council shall, in extreme circumstances, reserve the right to reject a proposed Ancillary Fee question outright. The only time this may occur is in the case that the University has misrepresented information about the Fee in question or has not provided sufficient information regarding the Fee in question in a timely manner.”
“Our bylaws do not tell you how to vote, but our bylaws tell you what you can vote on and when. And it says, right now, all you can vote on is the wording of the question,” Houston added.
Boytinck also said, “We should be able to reject ancillary fees from going to referendum.”
Many councillors asked why these fees are being imposed on students, and felt that the University should cover such expenses in their own operating budget. Arts Representative Lexi Michaud questioned why the University imposes ancillary fees on Council, asking, “Where is our tuition going? Why are these fees being asked to go through [Council]? […] I want an explanation of why this is being passed to student fees.”
“We should be able to reject ancillary fees from going to referendum.”
In order to address councillors’ concerns regarding ancillary fees, the motion regarding the renewal of the McGill Writing Centre ancillary fee was tabled. Council then brought up a motion regarding the amendment of the electoral timeline, extending it from February 11 to February 25 in order to gather information from the University regarding ancillary fees. February 11 was originally the last day Council could vote on approving questions to be asked at referendum; February 25 is now the last day.
Councillors then adopted a new motion that stipulated the creation of the ancillary fee referendum campaign period between March 21 and April 21, and the actual referendum period from March 28 to April 21.
Houston clarified that “what we’re proposing here is a separate referendum period called the ancillary fee referendum period to take place at the end of March, where [the] Access McGill, Writing Centre, and any other ancillary fees to come would be voted on.”
VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke spoke in favour of the motion, saying, “I think students should be aware of the fact that [ancillary fees] are essentially fees that are in addition to their tuition, going to services and operations that should be covered through the operating budget of [the University].”
The motion regarding the creation of the ancillary fee referendum campaign passed unanimously.
A motion was brought to Council to approve another question to be posed during the Winter 2016 referendum period, regarding the creation of an opt-outable Club Fund fee of $2.75 per student per semester.
Currently, SSMU allocates $25,000 to the Club Fund each semester. However, a preambulatory clause in the motion explain that this is “insufficient to meet the need for funding by the [more than 240] clubs recognized by the SSMU.”
“The Club Fund fee, which was something we had talked about prior to conceptualizing the base fee, would put the Club Fund at what I and [Bialik thought was appropriate].”
At the Council meeting, VP Clubs & Services Kimber Bialik emphasized the need for a Club Fund that cannot be cut during SSMU budget cuts. According to Houston, the Club Fund fee would generate approximately $100,000 for clubs.
Michaud questioned whether the creation of the Clubs Fund fee was a result of the failure of the referendum to increase the SSMU base fee, a portion of which was supposed to go to student groups.
In response, Houston said, “The Club Fund fee, which was something we had talked about prior to conceptualizing the base fee, would put the Club Fund at what I and [Bialik thought was appropriate].”
Arts Senator Erin Sobat, regarding the possibility that students might view a Club Fund fee as disingenuous following the base fee referendum, added that many students did not like that the idea that the increased base fee would contribute to staff salaries, among other things, but that there seemed to be general support for clubs.
The motion passed.
This article was updated following proceedings at Council.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Ban advocates for youth empowerment, environmental responsibility
On February 12, the United Nations (UN) Secretary General Ban Ki-moon gave a speech at McGill as part of his three-day working visit to Ottawa and Montreal. Speaking in a packed Leacock room 132, Ban talked about the ways in which youth balance idealism with reality, saying, “Keep your head above the clouds, but keep your two feet firmly on the ground. Then move step by step.”
Hundreds of students had lined up in the lobby of the Leacock building before the speech, forming a queue that stretched both toward the basement and toward the main entrance of the building.
Speaking to The Daily while waiting in line, Law student Nanying Tao said that she thought it would be interesting to hear about globalization from the perspective of an official of the UN.
“Usually you feel like globalization is too far away from us,” said Tao. “I think globalization means more pluralism and diversity. We usually feel like globalization is another kind of colonization or Westernization, or other kinds of modernization. I feel like in current affairs […] globalization will be more like a diversity of the world and more voices from the other part of the world.”
Members of campus climate justice group Divest McGill were also present, holding a large banner that said “Choose wisely: We can invest in the low carbon economy or we can invest in dirty technologies,” a quote from Ban himself.
Antonina Scheer, a U2 Earth Sciences and Economics student and a member of Divest McGill, was “extremely honoured” to have Ban speak at McGill.
“We know that he’s a supporter, already, of divestment. So, it means a lot that McGill has invited him and we wanted to take the opportunity to remind McGill that he is on our side in this specific debate,” Scheer told The Daily.
Stevan Tempesta Jr., International Relations Students’ Association at McGill (IRSAM) VP Internal, was particularly excited to see Ban. “Being a part of [IRSAM], United Nations and Ban Ki-moon especially have a special place in my heart, I think. […] I anticipate a lot of important dialogue from [Ban] today about youth involvement in politics. […] I think that is especially important, given that we’re all college students […] really trying to engage ourselves early in the international democratic process,” Tempesta told The Daily.
Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre, who attended the event, told The Daily that he was happy to have Ban visit Montreal.
“This is an international city. This is diversity. It’s all part of the process – I call that diplomacy of cities. […Ban] is a friend of Montreal and we will make him an honorary citizen tonight,” Coderre said.
Despite the fact that a fire alarm delayed the opening of the doors, Ban was able to start his speech with no additional hiccups. At 2:40 p.m., Ban took the stage and was met with a standing ovation.
“With all these global threats, we cannot just worry about young people or work for them. We have to invest in youth.”
During his speech, Ban highlighted how important it is for the UN to use youth to “forge solutions” to four problems: “Unemployment, climate change, armed conflict, and humanitarian crises.”
“The older generation has not taken care of the planet that the young people will inherit. You will be continuously affected and influenced by what our generation and our previous generations have neglected,” Ban said. “With all these global threats, we cannot just worry about young people or work for them. We have to invest in youth.”
Particularly with regard to climate change, Ban said, “You can all be part of the transition to a low-carbon economy and a low-carbon future. You are consumers, innovators, and at the same time you have votes. You can invest in green solutions, invent new technologies, and elect leaders who are committed to climate action.”
Hala Fakhroo, U1 Environment and Development student and a member of Divest McGill, told The Daily said she was “very happy” that Ban brought up climate change as one of the global issues that youth should focus on.
“I agreed with what he said, that we need bold action from young leaders to topple over the people […] that don’t believe in climate change and [put] obstacles in our way,” Fakhroo said.
Jed Lenetsky, U1 Environment student and also a member of Divest McGill, agreed with Fakhroo. “I think he said a lot of great things, especially in terms of holding the people who we’ve elected accountable. I think that’s very relevant, in terms of the federal government and especially in the UN, but also to McGill, specifically, in terms of holding the administration accountable for their actions and not taking sustainability as seriously as we would hope.”
Ban also brought up the fact that McGill graduate and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has “recommitted Canada to the United Nations,” and that he was here to “recommit the United Nations to partnership with Canada.”
“I think that’s very relevant, in terms of the federal government and especially in the UN, but also to McGill, specifically, in terms of holding the administration accountable for their actions and not taking sustainability as seriously as we would hope.”
Maéva Proteau, U3 Political Science and Middle East Studies student and editor-in-chief of the McGill International Review Online, told The Daily, “I feel it’s been so long since [Canada] had a place in the international community, so it’s exciting to see that we are trying to slowly regain our place.”
Daniel Weinstock, James McGill professor in the Faculty of Law, told The Daily that he was surprised that Ban would make a “thinly veiled set of political references” to Canada’s place in international relations under Stephen Harper’s government.
“He went a little bit further than I thought a diplomat […] would go […] to emphasize, as it were, that Canada has gone through a period of time when it had been self-eclipsed, as it were, from the international stage and from international diplomacy.”
Weinstock also said that he thought events like this are important to “remind ourselves of why it is we do what we do, why is it that we chose to study and to teach the range of topics that we chose to teach and study.”
“It’s a good kick in the pants, as it were, to the extent that in the middle of February, we may be tempted by fatigue. […] It’s a good way of reminding ourselves of that once in a while. He was certainly very inspiring, very human, very humane, surprisingly funny.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
