The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Collective condemns Trudeau’s lack of response to open letter
Updated on January 22.
On January 18, the Non-Status Women’s Collective of Montreal organized a press conference at Concordia’s Simone de Beauvoir Institute. The speakers, who wore masks to protect their identities, talked about their experiences going through undocumented lives and reiterated their demand that they be “regularized.”
Speaking in French at the conference, one of the members of the collective said that the masks were not just practical. “We are all wearing these masks symbolically, to remind that non-status people are forced into anonymity and clandestinity, which we would like to denounce,” she said. 
According to a 2004 report by community healthcare group Access Alliance, non-status individuals are “people who do not have the legal status that would allow them to live permanently in Canada. People can become ‘non-status’ when their refugee claim has been rejected, if they don’t have official identity documents, or because their student visa, visitor’s visa, or work permit has expired.”
“We are all wearing these masks symbolically, to remind that non-status people are forced into anonymity and clandestinity, which we would like to denounce.”
While Canada does not collect official statistics on non-status individuals, it is estimated by various organizations, including Access Alliance, that between 50,000 and 200,000 people live in Canada with “less than full legal status.” Some estimates put the number as high as 500,000. 
On November 27, the collective delivered a letter to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s office in Montreal, outlining the struggles of non-status women and asking the Prime Minister to “take a position on the regularization of non-status people in Canada.” According to a collective member present at the press conference, the letter was also emailed to Trudeau and the Ministry of Immigration on December 7.
Receiving no response, the collective sent the letter again on January 3, which has also gone unanswered.
“We who sign this letter are among tens or even hundreds of thousands of non-status people in Canada. Mr. Trudeau was elected in a Montreal riding where thousands of non-status people live. But, officially, we don’t exist,” the letter reads.
Addressing the audience, another member of the collective said in French, “We have called you here after having sent a letter to Prime Minister Trudeau, who has declared himself to be in favour of the rights of women, children, immigrants, and refugees – which is very positive and encouraging. However, he has never said anything about us, the non-status.”
“We […] however, exist. We already live in Canada. We raise our kids here. We work, we contribute to the wealth of this country. Sadly, our lives still remain unbearable and very, very arduous,” she continued.
“We raise our kids here. We work, we contribute to the wealth of this country. Sadly, our lives still remain unbearable and very, very arduous.”
While non-status individuals pay taxes, work, and contribute to society in other ways, they do not have access to most social rights, including public education, healthcare, and unemployment insurance. In addition, their lack of status makes them vulnerable to things like unfair and dangerous working conditions, or abuse from employers and landlords.
For instance, Quebec law requires that all children have a permanent code (PC) to register for school, but a PC can only be obtained if the child has official documentation. If an exception is made for the child of a non-status parent to go to primary school, parents will often be billed upwards of $5,000 to $6,000 per year, per child. Even so, without a PC the child may still be denied their credentials upon finishing their primary education.
One of the members at the press conference explained in French, “Imagine a child who goes to school for five or six years. The moment he starts secondary school, his studies will not be recognized, because he did not have a permanent code.”
Another problem for non-status individuals and their children is that they are not eligible for public health insurance.
“We are well-integrated into society, and you see us every day. We take the bus, we serve you at restaurants […] we do volunteering. […] Maybe we’re even your friends. But you do not know that, on the inside, we’re afraid of falling sick. Not because we do not like illnesses, but because we cannot go to the hospital,” the member continued.
Another collective member talked about an accident that occurred at her son’s school, which resulted in her son being hospitalized. The member was forced to pay $7,000 in cash for his life-saving operation.
“Blood was flowing everywhere, and there were fractures, really terrible,” she explained in French. “First, at school, they told me, ‘All right, we’re washing our hands of this, because you do not have a health insurance card.’ I took my son to [the] hospital, with the small amount of money I had with me.”
“First, at school, they told me, ‘All right, we’re washing our hands of this, because you do not have a health insurance card.’”
“They are all children. […] Yet, still, it’s as if a child with a health insurance card is a human being, and the other is not.”
The speakers also appealed to the fact that the Trudeau government has pledged to welcome 25,000 Syrian refugees into Canada, arguing that the government should not ignore those non-status people already in the country.
“With the Syrian refugees, to us that’s a really, really important door that’s opened,” the member said. “It is possible to receive more people [… but in our case] you have citizens who are already integrated, who know the country, who are here, who work, who want to live, and who want to stay.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Immigration Quebec relaxes course load requirements
On February 8, The Daily has published a letter from Pauline L’Ecuyer, Director of International Student Services, addressing certain inaccuracies within the article. 
As a result of more relaxed measures by Immigration Quebec over the last two years, it has become significantly easier for international students to run for and hold executive positions at the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU).
In June 2014, Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) issued a new set of regulations regarding study permits which requires students to be “actively pursuing” their studies while in Canada, which requires them to be full-time students.
All international students must have a valid Quebec Acceptance Certificate (CAQ) and a federally issued study permit to pursue studies in Quebec. The CAQ is issued for the duration of time that a student expects to study in Canada, but can be extended should the student decide to prolong their studies.
SSMU executive positions are full-time, with job contracts stipulating seventy hours per week. As a result, students in these positions almost always take on a part-time course load during their terms. In some instances, their contracts indicate that they can be enrolled in a “maximum of six credits.”
L’Ecuyer told The Daily that in the past, Immigration Quebec has maintained stringent rules requiring students to complete at least 12 credits per semester, in order to approve an extension of their CAQ.
SSMU’s current executive team is comprised entirely of U.S. and out-of-province Canadian students, as has been the case historically, said SSMU President Kareem Ibrahim.
It will change the representation in SSMU and the perspectives here.
Immigration and status requirements have generally been far more relaxed for U.S. citizens than other international students.
“[To work at SSMU], HR told me I just had to get a SIN [social insurance number],” said VP Internal Affairs El-Sharawy, who is a U.S. student. “There was also a missing clause on my study permit so I just went to the border and got it fixed. Honestly, it wasn’t a hard process, but I’m not sure if that’s the case for non-Americans.”
As per Fall 2015 enrollment, out-of-province Canadians make up 25 per cent of McGill’s student population and U.S. students, 7 per cent. McGill’s 45 per cent Quebec population and 22 per cent non-U.S. international population are entirely unrepresented on the SSMU executive.
“We see greater disconnect between international students and Quebec students. They are proportionally less involved [in student politics] than out-of-province students and Americans,” Ibrahim said.
“I’m glad that there have been changes in government structures that will allow international students to hold positions in SSMU,” said SSMU VP External Emily Boytinck. “It will change the representation in SSMU and the perspectives here.”
L’Ecuyer, who also sits on the Advisory Committee on International Students and Immigration (ACISI) for Quebec, said that in the last couple of years, she has seen immigration officers relax their criteria in granting CAQ extensions to students who have taken part-time status due to personal, medical, or humanitarian reasons, including pursuing leadership roles in their community, such as in student government.
L’Ecuyer emphasized, however, that the final decision on a student’s case is at the discretion of the immigration officer, who will take into account the student’s entire status since their arrival in Canada. While being a part-time student during a term served as a SSMU executive would not justify rejecting a student’s CAQ extension application, it might make matters more difficult if they have already been a part-time student in previous semesters since their arrival in Canada.
Having international students could have facilitated more platforms to increase the level of empathy between student groups.
Considering that each case is unique, however, L’Ecuyer highly encouraged any international student considering holding part-time status or running for a SSMU executive position to visit ISS for a free personal consultation with one of ISS’s two immigration lawyers.
Despite SSMU executives’ desire to accurately represent the student body, El-Sharawy said that as the executive is bound by SSMU’s Legislative Council, having a more diverse executive team would likely not have changed any of the executive decisions.
“While I don’t think [the lack of international students on SSMU] changed how executives might have tackled things,” El-Sharawy said, “having international students could have facilitated more platforms to increase the level of empathy between student groups.”
El-Sharawy encouraged non-U.S. international students to take the opportunity of the recently relaxed course status requirements to be involved in the SSMU executive, and continue to increase their leadership involvement in faculty councils.
“[As a SSMU executive], you’re mandated to be neutral and respect all student groups. As international students with your own experiences, you can help create a bridge between different groups,” El-Sharawy said. More international students as SSMU executives “could have decreased friction between groups and tensions that occurred due to differences,” he added.
Having part-time status also means you’re spending more years here, which means you’re spending more money, as well as delaying your graduation, in addition to the visa adjustments.
McGill International Student Network (MISN) President Afreen Aliya said she is hopeful that the change will increase international students’ involvement in student politics and help raise awareness for issues affecting them, such as changes to international fees.
Aliya is confident that MISN’s reach of over 2,000 students will prove instrumental in spreading awareness about the recent changes.
Dean of Students André Costopoulos agreed that a relaxation of full-time status requirements for international students will facilitate their participation on campus. He encourages them, however, to keep in mind the additional concerns that come along with maintaining part-time status as an international student.
“As an international student far away from home and your support network, you’re a person first – so you have to prioritize your well-being – a student second, and you can pursue a leadership position or politics third,” Costopoulos said. “It’s perfectly possible but it involves certain balancing.”
“Having part-time status also means you’re spending more years here, which means you’re spending more money, as well as delaying your graduation, in addition to the visa adjustments,” he said.
An earlier version of this article incorrectly implied that international students are no longer required to be full-time students to keep their immigration status. In fact, the requirement stands, but Immigration Quebec may now allow them to keep their immigration status even if they are part-time students under exceptional circumstances.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AUS Council to be included in the Work Study program
Updated on January 18, 12:49 p.m..
The Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) held their first meeting of the semester on January 13.
The only motion on the table concerned financial compensation for AUS executives. Brought forward by Gabriel Ning, Adam Templer, and Lexi Michaud, Arts Representatives to the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), the motion stipulated that Council meetings be included in the working hours of those participating in the AUS Executive Work Study program.
“Basically, being an AUS executive is such a commitment that it’s quite unreasonable to expect executives, who require work during their time as students, to have to maintain a second job as well,” explained President Jacob Greenspon.
“Being an AUS executive is such a commitment that it’s quite unreasonable to expect executives […] to have to maintain a second job as well.”
The Executive Work Study program was initiated by a referendum two years ago, “which would offer eligible [students] compensation for their activities as AUS executives. The issue that’s come up is whether attending AUS Council falls into that duty,” he continued.
The motion was swiftly approved, with three abstentions and no opposition.
Following the vote, a lengthy question period took place concerning the newly adopted criteria for selecting the VP Finance. At a small town hall meeting last semester, several options for refining the selection process were proposed. Greenspon explained the result of the discussion.
Greenspon said there are three categories of questions for the screening criteria. The first is “experience-based questions, which would assess candidates’ past experience handling accounts […] and audits.”
“We’ve found historically that the AUS budget […] has done a lot better when the VP Finance was present in Montreal for the summer.”
Section two is “more specific finance- and accounting-related questions, which [would] have one answer only, and they could be cross-referenced with […] someone who’s a certified accountant.”
The third category would concern availability for the summer, particularly the months of May and August, in order to complete the AUS audit and help with the finances of Frosh planning, respectively. “This isn’t a technical skill […] but it’s extremely important, because we’ve found historically that the AUS budget […] has done a lot better when the VP Finance was present in Montreal for the summer,” said Greenspon.
Itai Gibli, VP External of the Anthropology Students’ Association, questioned the fairness of requiring candidates to be in Montreal for at least part of the summer, pointing out that this criterion had nothing to do with their skill at accounting.
“It would be pretty rough for them to do this job from September on if they weren’t here at all for the summer,” responded Greenspon.
“If you applied for a job and it started in September, you would not get the job if you said you were only going to show up in December.”
Arts Senator Alex Kpeglo-Hennessy agreed. “If you applied for a job and it started in September, you would not get the job if you said you were only going to show up in December. It’s something that wouldn’t work,” Kpeglo-Hennessy said.
VP Social Christine Koppenaal also expressed firm support for this screening criteria, explaining that help from the VP Finance had been essential in organizing Arts Frosh.
The proposed screening criteria is set to be voted on at the next Council meeting as an amendment to the society’s bylaws.
An earlier version of this article quoted AUS President Jacob Greenspon as having said, “So last year, the Executive Work Study program was initiated by a motion through Council.” In fact, the Executive Work Study program was initiated by a referendum, two years ago. The Daily regrets the error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Procedures for conflicts of interest for thesis supervisors discussed
The Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Council met on January 13 for the first time in 2016.
Council received a report on the budget, discussed proposed procedures to address conflicts of interest for thesis supervisors, and passed a policy regarding affiliation with and disaffiliation from student federations.
Anticipating PGSS’s potential affiliation to one of Quebec’s two new student federations – the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec (AVEQ) and the Union étudiante du Québec (UEQ) – External Affairs Officer Bradley Por moved to adopt a policy to establish procedures for affiliation with and disaffiliation from student federations.
In proposing the policy, Por sought to avoid repeating the disastrous experience PGSS underwent when it attempted to disaffiliate from the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS) – a legal battle that has been ongoing over the past six years and has cost PGSS hundreds of thousands of dollars.
The policy stipulates that PGSS will only consider joining a student federation that signs a binding agreement providing that PGSS has “the right to terminate its affiliation when the membership expresses its will to disaffiliate.”
The policy further states that a referendum regarding continued membership in the federation must be held at least once every five years, as well as regarding any membership fee increase beyond inflation.
“The context here at McGill is very sensitive to disaffiliation and I see the impetus to [overdo] it.”
Postgraduate Philosophy Students of McGill University Association (PPSMUA) representative Frédérick Armstrong expressed concern that the policy might be redundant, given that the bylaws of both federations that PGSS is considering joining already contain clear affiliation and disaffiliation procedures.
“The context here at McGill is very sensitive to disaffiliation and I see the impetus to [overdo] it,” said Armstrong.
“But it seems that if you affiliate with an association with a binding written policy […] that gives you the right to disaffiliate. My worry is that federations may be reluctant [to sign] that [separate] agreement,” he said.
In response, Por argued that federation bylaws might change, and that a reluctance on the part of a federation to sign a separate agreement guaranteeing a right to disaffiliate could be a warning sign in itself.
“My worry is that federations may be reluctant [to sign] that [separate] agreement.”
The motion passed with three abstentions, and the policy will now go to the Policy and Structure Advisory Committee (PSAC) for review.
Financial Affairs Officer Behrang Sharif presented a budget update and quarterly financial report. Despite facing both unforeseen expenses and lower revenues than accounted for, Sharif said that he is planning to run a balanced budget this year.
“We were confused in the previous years […] when we were budgeting […] our revenue,” said Sharif.
“We were not looking at how much revenue we had from the membership fee last year [… and] we were [projecting] an increase of 4 to 5 per cent. […] Because our accounting system was not very clear, we never actually understood that we were digging into some of these lines more than we actually have money.”
“We were confused in the previous years […] when we were budgeting […] our revenue.”
“The total revenue that we actually could foresee for this year was more than $200,000 less than what was in the budget that I had received,” he added.
Sharif also noted that an unforeseen $30,000 had to be budgeted toward the CFS court case, and that more related expenses are expected as the 2017 court hearing date draws closer.
Academic Affairs Officer Devin Mills reported that the Council of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies will consider adding conflict of interest disclosure to the annual progress tracking procedure for thesis students at its next meeting, which will be held today. This is a follow-up to an issue that was brought to Senate’s attention in December, when Mills and other graduate senators submitted a question regarding the management and ownership of companies by McGill professors.
Equity Commissioner Régine Debrosse informed Council of the launch of a peer support group for racialized students, and said that the Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) office will hold an equity workshop for Thomson House staff.
Debrosse also asked Provost Christopher Manfredi, present at Council, when a Black Studies program would follow the recently introduced Indigenous Studies minor. Manfredi responded that there are currently no such plans.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Not many opportunities to help in Milton-Parc neighbourhood
With the federal government’s announcement that Canada would take in 25,000 Syrian refugees, followed by the first arrivals over the holidays, Canadians have overwhelmed charitable organizations and student groups with their desire to help the incoming refugees.
While the McGill community has seen a wave of student interest in helping these refugees, there is a notable lack of opportunities to get involved within the Milton-Parc neighbourhood.
Several charitable organizations have been helping refugees, even before the government’s announcement, such as Action Réfugiés Montréal. In an interview with The Daily, Paul Clarke, the executive director of the organization, emphasized how the organization has been “inundated with all kinds of people since September and much more intensely since November.”
“We had people who got in touch with us around December 15, saying that they were going to cook a big meal.”
“We had people who got in touch with us around December 15, saying that they were going to cook a big meal, [asking] ‘Do you know any Syrians who are going to be alone? Have them come our way, we’ll have them over for Christmas dinner,’” Clarke said.
People have been mainly trying to help by donating clothes or furniture, and offering to tutor refugees in French. Clarke emphasized that Action Réfugiés Montréal and other organizations have been overwhelmed with clothes, and “no one knows what to do with clothes anymore, so that has certainly stopped.”
Such high levels of donation prompted Human Concern International, another charitable organization that helps refugees, to open a clothing store in Laval. In an interview with The Daily, Yazan Nasreddin, the Montreal manager at Human Concern International, explained that, at this store, “a refugee can come with [their] family and pick up anything they want from the store, free of charge.”
“No one knows what to do with clothes anymore, so that has certainly stopped.”
Human Concern International is working with the McGill and Concordia Syrian Students’ Associations (SSA) to encourage students and those living in urban Montreal to get involved. Nasreddin mentioned the possibility of opening a store in central Montreal, similar to the one in Laval, but so far there are only drop off locations for food and clothing downtown. The two SSA groups not only work with Human Concern International, but also came together with other groups to form an umbrella organization called the Canadian Alliance for Syrian Aid (CASA), through which people can donate their time and supplies.
In an interview with The Daily, Yara Hammami, president of McGill’s SSA, said, “The SSA, as you can imagine, deals with students and student affairs. […] So that is what we will continue to do as part of CASA.”
The McGill SSA has created a form for those interested in helping refugees that asks for information about the potential volunteer and how they can help. The form facilitates volunteer coordination by allowing the SSA to contact potential volunteers on a case-by-case basis, especially if they are eligible to become tutors.
Hammami added, “We started on Facebook, but we got over 1,500 responses, which was incredible.”
While many students want to help refugees, there appear to be no direct opportunities in the Milton-Parc neighbourhood, an area largely inhabited by McGill students.
Clarke explained the lack of opportunities, saying, “One thing to consider is that, certainly with the privately sponsored refugees, they are likely to live close to their sponsor. Most of the Syrians that we’re aware of here live in Ville Saint-Laurent [or] in Laval.”
When asked if he knew of any events or ways people could help out in the neighbourhood, Clarke responded, “Not specifically, no.” Hammami added that she wasn’t sure about the Milton-Parc area because to her knowledge there aren’t many members of the SSA living there.
“Most of the Syrians that we’re aware of here live in Ville Saint-Laurent [or] in Laval.”
However, the McGill community – especially the students – has rallied to help the refugees. Students in the Solin Hall Living and Learning Community have been tutoring Syrian refugees in English and French since November. Other students have been meeting with newly arrived refugees and volunteering to help out with donations.
The University itself has taken action. According to Robert Ishimwe, an executive team member of World University Service of Canada (WUSC) McGill, the university “has committed to sponsoring four more student refugees, in addition to the two it already sponsors annually.” However, the commitment will not continue after this year, as WUSC lacks the funds to sponsor more students.
Ishimwe emphasized the need to find a sustainable way to help refugees. “Just like any other disaster, the recent crisis is going to be a distant memory in most of us very soon, although millions of people are still stuck in a refugee camp,” Ishimwe said.
Hammami also told the Daily that she hopes “the enthusiasm is not just among McGill students. McGill students have been generous, but we do see a highly Islamophobic tone toward Syrians [in other areas of Canada].”
“McGill students have been generous, but we do see a highly Islamophobic tone toward Syrians [in other areas of Canada].”
On January 9, a crowd of refugees were pepper sprayed by an unknown man on a bicycle while attending an event at the Muslim Association of Canada Centre in Vancouver.
Hammami hopes the momentum of support does not fade – when the SSA began contacting students who filled out the form, “the response rate [was] not as enthusiastic as it was when they signed up.”
“The Syrian community can only do so much on its own,” Hammami continued, “but that’s why we’re really excited to involve people from the McGill community, because it’s so international, and from the Montreal community in general, because Montreal in itself is so welcoming.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Research misconduct investigation regulations amended
This article has been updated on January 18.
On January 13, McGill Senate held its first meeting of 2016. Items on the agenda were a question regarding divestment from the fossil fuel industry, proposed revisions to the university’s Regulations Concerning the Investigation of Research Misconduct, and the annual reports on Research Performance and Innovation, and Student Life and Learning.
Senators Erin Sobat, Tomer Noyhouzer, and Fiona Ritchie had submitted a question to Senate asking whether “given the scope of the current divestment movement […] and divestment decisions at other institutions,” the University is concerned “that a lack of action on this issue might impact McGill’s academic reputation and integrity as a research institution.”
In his written response, Secretary-General Stephen Strople confirmed that the Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility (CAMSR) will make a decision by March.
Speaking at Senate, Sobat asked a follow-up question, referring back to the part of the question about McGill’s academic reputation, remarking that Principal Suzanne Fortier “starts most of her remarks with academic reputation.”
“The only thing we’ve seen is, perhaps, that a thorough assessment of the question is what is expected of the university.”
In response, Fortier said, “In terms of reputation, I must say [… some universities] have made decisions [and…] some are still considering. [But] there is no evidence, actually, that it has any impact on reputation in universities. The only thing we’ve seen is, perhaps, that a thorough assessment of the question is what is expected of the university.”
Ritchie asked whether McGill’s indecision regarding divestment would impact the Liberal government’s potential decision to appoint research chairs in the area of sustainable technologies.
“I don’t believe so, no,” Fortier said. “The selection will be made on the quality of the research programs at the university. […] Political questions never enter into these kinds of competitions.”
“Political questions never enter into these kinds of competitions.”
In an interview with The Daily, Sobat expressed his disappointment with the administration’s response, saying, “It wasn’t particularly substantial.”
“I think it was disappointing that [Fortier] did not have more to say on how this will affect […] McGill’s future viability and reputation as a research institution,” Sobat continued.
The Academic Policy Committee (APC) proposed revisions to the Regulations Concerning the Investigation of Research Misconduct, which were last amended in May 2010. The proposal comes as part of the regular triennial process for policy revisions as determined by Senate.
One of the more significant proposed amendments is the addition of “mismanagement of research funds” to the definition of forms of research misconduct. According to the APC’s report, this is being added to meet the criteria set by the Tri-Agency, the coalition of Canada’s three major research funding agencies.
“If a complaint is from a student that comes at the beginning of the semester, the outcome will take effect at the end of a research course.”
Another change increases the number of days allocated to investigate allegations of research misconduct from 90 to 120. According to Medicine Senator David Benrimoh, this makes it more difficult for students who might be reporting their concerns to the Research Integrity Officer (RIO), because 120 days roughly corresponds to a full semester.
“If a complaint is from a student that comes at the beginning of the semester, the outcome will take effect at the end of a research course,” Benrimoh said.
In response, McGill’s RIO Abraham Fuks said that the change was done to reflect reality. “It takes more time,” Fuks said. “You’re speaking to an issue of trying to make a process accommodate the needs of the respondent.”
The proposed changes were approved by Senate and will be discussed at the Board of Governors.
In his report, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens talked about the successes and challenges of handling Student Services. Dyens highlighted issues such as the lack of funding and the increasing demand to health and mental health services.
Senator Doaa Farid argued that the University has been neglecting student consultation in the provision of student services, saying, “If we take the example of our health services, [like the Nutrition, Dietics and Food program] for the past ten years, the student nutrition group was not involved in the whole program.”
“Maybe by involving the professional orders, you could help more students,” Farid said.
“Maybe by involving the professional orders, you could help more students.”
“We have a nutritionist on our dining services, and I think dining services have made improvements,” Dyens said in response. “We’ve been working really hard this year to bring all of the services […] to a more cohesive unit […] where we can create more synergies. […] We are working on this. It’s not going to happen overnight.”
Engineering Senator Joshua Thon brought up the negotiations currently taking place between the University and the recently unionized floor fellows. Thon asked what opportunities McGill sees for harm reduction among student services.
Dyens explained, “It’s always been a huge issue for McGill, a huge project for McGill. Harm reduction, the way it was framed a few years ago, is different than what it is today. It is crucially important for McGill in general.”
Speaking to The Daily about Dyens’ response, Sobat said, “The question of harm reduction in floor fellows’ job description is a key part of [the negotiations. …] We’re concerned that there is a lack of understanding from many administrators about what harm reduction is and what it seeks to do, and I think that that was confirmed by the deputy provost’s response.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council debates for an hour over wording of membership fee clauses
This article has been updated on January 18.
The Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council had its first meeting of 2016 on January 14. Council adopted motions regarding an amendment of the Internal Regulations of the Presidential Portfolio and the adoption of the Internal Regulations of Elections and Referenda.
A motion was brought to Council to call a special referendum from January 27 to 29 regarding an increase of the SSMU membership fee by $5.50 per student per semester. The real dollar amount of SSMU’s current membership fee has not changed since 2007, when it was increased by $1.00 – an increase which was earmarked specifically for the Student Space Fund. Currently, full-time students in most faculties pay a membership fee of $44.75 per semester.
According to the motion, “SSMU has grown in size in the last decade by supporting more student groups, providing more services, and providing more opportunities for student employment.”
“This will probably be one of the most important motions that we’re going to debate in SSMU this entire year.”
SSMU has long faced well-documented financial struggles, though its most recent budget was unusually frugal. For instance, the yearly $50,000 transfer to SSMU’s Capital Expenditures Reserve Fund was eliminated this year.
The motion’s preamble notes that hours for permanent and student staff have also been cut, “thereby reducing the level of service that the SSMU is able to offer.”
“This will probably be one of the most important motions that we’re going to debate in SSMU this entire year, because it’s going to have such a long-term impact on the sustainability and the future of SSMU,” said VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke.
“It’s going to have such a long-term impact on the sustainability and the future of SSMU.”
The preamble was amended to add a “whereas” clause to clarify that the funding will be directed at “priority areas in need of increased funding,” specifically clubs and services, mental health, and student space improvements.
The motion passed unanimously.
Another motion to pose a question at the aforementioned January special referendum was brought to Council, this one regarding restructuring the portfolios of SSMU executives.
While executive contracts mandate a 70-hour workweek, the motion’s preamble states that the hours worked have been “closer to 85 hours per week, on average, this year” – though executives have previously reported exceeding 100 hours per week.
“We’re very hopeful, though we know we’re kind of running into the fire with this one.”
The restructuring would create a seventh executive position by splitting the VP Finance and Operations portfolio into separate VP Finance and VP Operations positions, resulting in a more balanced distribution of tasks among the other executives. The new VP Operations portfolio would deal with building management, student-run operations, and human resources, among other tasks.
Speaking at Council, President Kareem Ibrahim said, “We’re very hopeful, though we know we’re kind of running into the fire with this one. It’s kind of now or never. There’s always going to be times in which we feel […] the students don’t have enough confidence in us to make such a radical change.”
Clubs and Services representative François-Paul Truc proposed the addition of a “whereas” clause that would clarify that adding a seventh executive would cost SSMU $35,000, an amount that was mentioned by VP Finance and Operations Zacheriah Houston at Council.
“Students want to see how much it’s going to be and why it’s going to be that much. If we don’t include an amount it’s going to look like we’re hiding it.”
“I feel like it’s rather easy to vote on something that has no cost anywhere on this article,” explained Truc.
“Students want to see how much it’s going to be and why it’s going to be that much. If we don’t include an amount it’s going to look like we’re hiding it,” agreed Science Representative Sean Taylor.
Other councillors opposed the amendment, such as Rourke, who said, “I think the cost of an additional executive is easy to determine, but the cost of not having that executive isn’t necessarily easy to determine. And there is, actually, a financial cost to that.”
“I’m worried that [adding the cost] would persuade people to vote against it,” added Environment Representative Chelsea Kingzett.
The debate continued for an hour, with Truc at one point threatening to create a “no” campaign in response to other councillors’ vocal opposition to the amendment.
The motion passed unanimously after re-wording the amendment to exclude the $35,000 figure while clarifying that the position is paid.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Vigil raises awareness about animal cruelty
Neither the chilling wind nor the drizzling rain could stop a group of thirty people from gathering on January 9 at the Mont-Royal metro station, where an anti-speciesist vigil was held. Organized by the Montreal animal rights group Résistance Animale, the vigil aimed to promote veganism and raise awareness about animal cruelty and negligence in all of their forms.
Résistance Animale is a non-hierarchical collective whose main objective is to increase awareness about veganism while working to abolish speciesism, the belief that other animal species are inferior to human beings and that they can be used for the benefit of people without regard for their suffering.
As stated in French in the description on its Facebook page, the organization is also supportive of movements that fight against various forms of oppression and discrimination, such as sexism, racism, homophobia, and fascism.
“We had to go further to defend animals, of course, but not just cats and dogs.”
Speaking to The Daily in French, Daniel Roy, the organizer of the vigil, said, “In the beginning, I thought that an organization needed to be created, which would come to be Résistance Animale, because we had to go further to defend animals, of course, but not just cats and dogs.”
Beside a table full of informational materials, people held signs and pickets, saying “Ce n’est pas de la nourriture, c’est de la violence” (“This is not food, this is violence”), and “Mettez fin au spécisme, go végane” (“End speciesism, go vegan”). Some of the signs included photos of various animals in captivity.
Reginald Beauchamp, a participant at the vigil, told The Daily in French, “[The atmosphere] was wonderful. We had lots of people. People who passed by were really sympathetic. They smiled and asked us questions, which stimulated growth [of the crowd].”
“There are lots of people who come [to one event], then [come] back and tell me, ‘Well, I became vegan.’”
Marie-Joie Renaud, another participant, agreed. “It’s always a pleasant, relaxed atmosphere,” Renaud said.
Speaking on the importance of organizing such events, Roy said, “For me they’re important for raising awareness. […] They open people’s minds. And there are lots of people who come [to one event], then [come] back and tell me, ‘Well, I became vegan.’”
Asked why he attended the event, Beauchamp responded, “To raise awareness amongst people about speciesism, so that people finally understand that animals are not objects, they’re not here to serve us. They’re just like us. We’re all living beings together.”
Beauchamp also said, “Cows are raped every year and artificially inseminated, and next we steal their babies and we steal their milk and when they start to produce less milk around the age of four, we send them to the slaughterhouse. […] Cows normally live 25, 30 years, but they live [only] around four years because of this.”
“Cows normally live 25, 30 years, but they live [only] around four years because of this.”
According to Animal Defenders International (ADI), cattle raised for beef are sent to slaughter even earlier than dairy cows, at 10 to 12 months of age. Furthermore, ADI explains that cows usually “lactate for around ten to thirteen months after they have given birth. The cows are therefore re-impregnated approximately 60 days after giving birth to continue the cycle of milk production.”
Discussing the vegan movement in Montreal, Renaud said, “I’m a little discouraged that [the number of vegans is] such a small percentage. […] It happens one by one – one person at a time becomes aware.”
Roy noted, “I find that it’s in the process of development. […] But raising awareness [… is] a lot of work, like we’re doing presently.”
According to Roy, Résistance Animale will organize similar events every three weeks. Their next one is scheduled for February 6 in the same location, in front of the Mont-Royal metro station.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
