The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU and PGSS report calls for contextualization and specification
On September 12, the Office of the Provost released the Draft Policy against Sexual Violence (DPSV) for community consultation, with the intent of submitting it to Senate in November for approval. Following requests from representatives of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) and the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), the Office of the Provost agreed to fund a series of focus groups on the DPSV.
Between September 23 and October 3, SSMU and PGSS hosted a total of eight focus group sessions during which students gave detailed feedback on the DPSV, including two closed sessions for survivors of sexual assault. All sessions were facilitated by trained volunteers from the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students Society (SACOMSS).
On October 12, SSMU and PGSS released a Consultation Report on the DPSV, which contains 28 recommendations for improvement. These recommendations were divided into seven different categories: language and framing, scope, empowering survivors, education and awareness, support resources, accountability, and comprehensive review.
In an interview with The Daily, SSMU VP University Affairs Erin Sobat explained the process that led up to writing the consultation report: “McGill first circulated a draft policy in May, over the summer […] and at the time we were really emphasizing the need for wider consultation, particularly with those who would be most affected by a policy like this,” said Sobat. “Now in the most recent revisions we see a centralized office that has been identified with a name, but there are other policies and procedures at the University that aren’t explicitly named or aren’t very clear on how they play in.”
With regards to the focus group sessions, he said, “I think it was very useful and important to get the perspective of just students at large on how they would access or navigate this policy. […] I think for students who were just reading through this, it really wasn’t very clear what it was intending to do.”
In an email to The Daily, PGSS Equity Commissioner Angela Yu, who was also involved in the drafting of the report, said, “our report emphasizes that the policy must be explicit about the expectations, resources and procedures that exist on our campus to address sexual violence to best serve all members of our community.”
“I think for students who were just reading through this, it really wasn’t very clear what it was intending to do.”
“A pro-survivor policy needs to clearly outline centralized reporting procedures and the rights of respondents just as much as it should ensure the university-wide provision of accessible and intersectional support resources,” she went on to write.
The Daily also reached out to a representative from the McGill chapter of Silence is Violence to discuss the DPSV. “I believe that survivors’ recommendations should have been specifically highlighted and given extra weight too. Survivors know what’s best for them,” the representative said, adding that, “I’m concerned that there was no specific effort to reach out to those who have reported sexual assault at McGill to provide feedback.”
“A pro-survivor policy needs to clearly outline centralized reporting procedures and the rights of respondents just as much as it should ensure the university-wide provision of accessible and intersectional support resources.”
As for the consultation report itself, the first category, language and framing, revealed “many participants, and particularly survivors, indicated that the policy’s preamble does not sufficiently recognize the devastating impact of sexual violence for those who experience it.”
It further notes the context of sexual violence is not explicitly defined, nor are the barriers that prevent reporting incidents of sexual violence, and that certain phrases are ambiguous.
The report calls for “contextualizing the disproportionate occurrence of sexual violence on university campus” and recognizing the impact of systemic oppression, among other recommendations.
The section on empowering survivors places much emphasis on creating a “pro-survivor framework,” revealing that participants voiced concerns about survivors’ autonomy.
Regarding this, the report notes that many participants believed the emphasis on “procedural equity,” took away from the policy’s other commitments. They recommended that the rights of both survivors and perpetrators be clearly outlined to clarify “procedural expectations” for both parties.
It also recommends that the policy specify a “centralized disclosure and reporting process,” and introduce timelines for the provision of “support and recourse measures for both disclosures and reports.”
With regards to education and awareness, the report calls for the development of a university-wide education plan that will address sexual violence awareness and response measures, as well as provide basic educational materials to staff.
The report also recommends that “detailed training sessions,” be provided for front line service staff and those involved with responding to disclosures and reports.
Section five of the DPSV, which focuses on support resources, recommends that McGill “identify the specific resources responsible for enacting policy commitments, including employee titles and a centralized awareness and response office.”
With regards to education and awareness, the report calls for the development of a university-wide education plan that will address sexual violence awareness and response measures, as well as provide basic educational materials to staff.
It also recommends the implementation of “new intersectional and culturally-specific support resources,” and the development of direct lines of referral to all support resources.
The section on accountability concluded that McGill must acknowledge the history of sexual violence, as well as the administration and community’s shared responsibility of addressing it and recognizing perpetrators’ role in enacting sexual violence. It also called upon McGill to commit to enforcing consequences “via existing disciplinary procedures.”
The final section, “comprehensive review,” focuses on Article 21 of the DPSV, which provides for a review of the “phenomenon” of sexual violence on campus.
The report calls for a review of the policy to be conducted by a committee at “arms-length” from the administration with “qualified students, staff, faculty, and external experts.” It asks that the committee be mandated to review McGill’s existing policies and procedures, and that they develop a detailed consultation plan for reaching people who understand university reporting structures.
The report’s final request was that the committee mandate, consultation plan, progress reports, and final recommendations be shared with the university community.
It concluded that a policy against sexual violence at McGill is the first step towards combating rape culture on campus. This current draft “provides a valuable framework for educating the community and enhancing support for survivors.”
The report’s final request was that the committee mandate, consultation plan, progress reports, and final recommendations be shared with the university community.
However, Silence is Violence expressed concerns regarding the impact of the policy on sexual violence.
“I don’t think that a policy could have much effect if its enactment isn’t being actively overseen by another body,” the spokesperson said. “While I think the recommendations are trying to achieve the best they can in this system, I seriously doubt there would be much difference in the prevalence of sexual violence on campus or support offered to survivors.”
Meanwhile, Yu added that “we believe that the campus review of sexual violence slated for next year will allow us to continue these much-needed conversations on a university-wide level and productively direct the implementation of the policy.”
Sobat also believes there is still much to do in regards to McGill’s work against sexual violence. “I believe it’s important for us to recognize that we need more than just a policy. [The University should go] beyond the policy at the procedures and [consider] the longer term educational strategy on campus,” he said.
“While I think the recommendations are trying to achieve the best they can in this system, I seriously doubt there would be much difference in the prevalence of sexual violence on campus or support offered to survivors.”
He added that “we would like to see a recognition from the administration that sexual violence not only does occur, but has occurred in the past and people have been failed by the system in place. A campus wide plan on campus for implementation and education is definitely needed.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Meeting sees controversy over “Prof Talk” cancellation
On Wednesday, October 19, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) convened for their legislative council meeting, where they discussed endorsing the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE), the cancelling of an upcoming “Prof Talk,” and committee reports.
Since May 2015, AMUSE has been engaged in negotiations with the administration over its collective agreement. AMUSE argues that its current agreement fails to provide its members — many of whom are in need of financial aid to fund their education — with a living wage, adequate job security, or the employment benefits they deserve. As such, they have outlined a series of bargaining priorities, which include “respect for casual workers, including hiring priority for jobs you’ve already done,” “accurate job descriptions,” “seniority and benefits for casual workers,” improvements to the Work Study program, and a $15 minimum wage.
A motion had been brought to Council to endorse these goals and mandate AUS to “publish a statement in support of these priorities on its website, listserv, and social media channels.”
AMUSE President Claire Michela motivated the motion and took questions from the room, reminding councilors that the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) had endorsed these priorities the previous week, on October 13.
Kat Sviknushin, AUS VP Social, spoke in favour of the motion and the values it represented. “I […] want to speak in support of this motion, mostly because I feel that it underlines one of the things that the AUS is always trying to achieve, which is student employment, […] but I also think this motion serves as a reminder to ourselves when we’re discussing […] paying people that we’re funding a livable wage, and using our bargaining power with people like the Dean to […] continue increasing stipends to […] a livable wage. As someone who employs twelve Frosh [Coordinators], this is something I’m very sensitive towards.”
“I […] want to speak in support of this motion, mostly because I feel that it underlines one of the things that the AUS is always trying to achieve, which is student employment […].”
No one expressed opposition to the motion, and it passed with only two abstentions.
During his report, AUS VP Academic Erik Partridge announced that an upcoming “Prof Talk” had been cancelled due to a room booking problem. World Islamic and Middle East Studies Student Association VP External and former editor at The Daily Niyousha Bastani responded to Partridge, calling this statement “disingenuous,” and stating that as she understood it, there had been other reasons behind the cancellation. Partridge responded that the room booking problem had been the “main reason.” He did not, however, mention any other reasons.
In her report, AUS VP Internal Kira Smith also told Council that the “Prof Talk” in question had been cancelled because of a room booking problem.
Arts Representative Igor Sadikov, another former editor at The Daily, took issue with this assessment, arguing that Partridge and Smith had presented the situation in a “misleading” way, and that if the talk had been cancelled for confidential reasons, this fact should be stated publicly. Smith then denied that her statement had been misleading, repeating that the talk had been cancelled because of a problem with finding a room.
Niyousha Bastani responded to Partridge, calling this statement “disingenuous,” and stating that as she understood it, there had been other reasons behind the cancellation.
Though these disagreements occurred in the context of Partridge and Smith’s executive reports, neither written report mentions the “Prof Talk” cancellation or the rationale behind it.
In a statement to The Daily after the meeting, AUS Equity Commissioners Jad El Tal and Leah Damo explained the context of the controversy.
“Last weekend, a student in Arts approached us and told us about their concern with the upcoming Prof Talk,” Damo and Tal wrote. “They informed us that the invited professor was accused of having sexual relations with students, but this was never formally published. As Equity Commissioners, it is under our mandate to monitor on-going discussions/events, with an emphasis on promoting anti-oppression and pro-survivor values. This is why we forwarded the student’s concern to […] VP Academic Partridge. As for the actual reason behind the cancellation, we do not know whether or not the talk was cancelled due to the allegation or room booking, since the final decision is not under our mandate.”
“[The student] informed us that the invited professor was accused of having sexual relations with students, but this was never formally published. As Equity Commissioners, it is under our mandate to monitor on-going discussions/events, with an emphasis on promoting anti-oppression and pro-survivor values.”
Asked to clarify his statement at the meeting, Partridge made the following statement to The Daily by email: “I regret that I was not more clear at AUS Council and that my answer was equivocal. The logistical issues were the most proximate cause of the cancellation. That said, a cancellation was on the horizon with regards to other issues that I did not feel at liberty to discuss publicly.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Definition of consent discussed
On Wednesday October 19, the McGill Senate met to discuss the Draft Policy against Sexual Violence (DPSV).
The DPSV was drafted over the summer by the McGill administration, in discussion with various parties on and off campus, and released to the University community for consultation on September 12. Since then, the administration has been collecting feedback on it, largely through an online form which students and staff have been encouraged to fill in.
At Wednesday’s Senate meeting, Provost and Vice-Principal (Academic) Christopher Manfredi presented the results of this feedback and reported on the progress that has been made in recent weeks.
“The aim of the policy is to ensure support for survivors who are members of our university community in a manner that is respectful and confidential, and is not conditional on initiating a disciplinary or criminal investigation,” Manfredi explained. “A policy is essential, of course, but we understand that a policy on its own will not do all of the work, and […] we are putting resources in place to support the policy, and other actions [we are taking] in this area.”
“We have put in place […] the process to hire a second person to support our work against sexual violence at the University,” Manfredi explained, “as well as secured office space at a location proximate to campus that provides a greater level of accessibility and confidentiality than we had available in our facilities on campus.”
“A policy is essential, of course, but we understand that a policy on its own will not do all of the work, and […] we are putting resources in place to support the policy, and other actions [we are taking] in this area.”
For the purposes of this discussion, Senators were provided with a summary of the online feedback sent in since September 12 — the document had been prepared by an unbiased third party. The summary highlighted several “key insights” drawn from the 175 online submissions, which included a need for clearer information regarding how to report sexual violence and how the policy will interact with existing disciplinary procedures.
Relatively little discussion took place around the DPSV; those who spoke expressed appreciation for the work that had gone into producing it. Senator John Galaty also commended the policy, though he offered some suggestions for improvement and implementation.
“In the document […] we see a definition of sexual violence stating that somebody cannot consent when they are intoxicated,” said Galaty. “Then, the next page says that we cannot, or should not, query people who are self-reporting with regard to alcohol use, and it seems to me that there’s a contradiction between these two paragraphs.”
“We have put in place […] the process to hire a second person to support our work against sexual violence at the University, as well as secured office space at a location proximate to campus that provides a greater level of accessibility and confidentiality than we had available in our facilities on campus.”
In response to Galaty’s concerns, Associate Provost Angela Campbell, who was largely responsible for drafting the DPSV, said that “we’re not talking in this document about issues of determining whether or not an incident occurred for the purposes of assessing disciplinary action. […] This is a document that sets out the commitment that the University is making to both educate the community with a view to preventing sexual violence […] and also to support individuals who have disclosed a lived experience of sexual violence.”
“The definition of consent in the document doesn’t say that one can’t consent if they have […] used any kind of intoxicating substance, […] it talks about lack of capacity,” continued Campbell. “So if a person has been rendered incapacitated as a result of any situation, […] the lack of capacity is what renders the consent vitiated.”
“So if a person has been rendered incapacitated as a result of any situation, […] the lack of capacity is what renders the consent vitiated.”
Other matters discussed at Senate included the recent relocation of the McGill bookstore, and a report on hiring inequity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Reduced electricity use discussed at PGSS General Meeting
On Wednesday, October 19, the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) of McGill University met for their monthly council meeting, as well as their biannual General Meeting. Council voted on three motions, one regarding a referendum question for a Midnight Kitchen student levy, another allowing the Macdonald Campus Graduate Student Society to access the Post-Graduate Student Life Fund, and a final one approving Board Committee appointments. Two other motions were tabled.
The General Meeting consisted of a multitude of announcements from graduate students and other McGill officials, as well as executive reports.
The council meeting featured an extensive presentation by the Office of Student Life and Learning (SLL), headed by Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens.
“I come to Council about once or twice a year,” said Dyens, “usually to discuss the student services budget which we will do again this year, a bit later in November […], but the point of this meeting is to show you a bit of what SLL is and what we do, and then […] to answer your questions about some of the things we do, kind of like a meet-and-greet.”
SLL’s presentation began with an introduction to the office’s objectives, including but not limited to “offer[ing] the best, most innovative and healthiest educational experience in North America,” while “[developing] intellectual partnerships [between McGill’s] faculties, students and the entire McGill community.”
The presentation also touched upon the challenges faced by SLL. SLL detailed its work in negotiating Memorandum of Agreements (MoAs) with the University’s student unions, while simultaneously working on policy development within the university as a whole – notably, with policies that pertain to sexual violence, student academic assessment, medical notes, and plagiarism.
Council voted on a motion to approve a referendum question on a Midnight Kitchen student levy. While McGill undergraduate students currently support Midnight Kitchen through a $3.35 per semester per student opt-outable fee, graduate students don’t pay any fees to support the organization.
The referendum question asks graduate students if they would “support a student levy of $0.75 per semester to support the Midnight Kitchen, payable and fully opt-outable on Minerva by members of PGSS,” from Winter 2017 until Fall 2018, at which point it will be brought back to PGSS for renewal.
The motion passed unanimously, with 54 votes in favour.
Debate on MCGSS Funding
An amendment of the budget for Macdonald Campus Graduate Students’ Society (MCGSS) funding was brought to Council. It was sent to committee last Council meeting, but was not approved. The amendment to the budget would result in PGSS taking a total of $2,500, or the equivalent of $5.00 per graduate student at Macdonald campus, from the PGSS grants budget line and allocating it to MCGSS. This would subsequently be added to PGSS’ annual budget.
A motion to amend this was brought forward that would take $2.00 per graduate student, instead of $5.00 for Winter 2017. The motion passed.
Thomas Colburn of the Postgraduate Philosophy Student Association (PPSMUA), asked why the MCGSS wasn’t initially allocated any funds. Secretary General Victor Frankel responded that he “wasn’t part of the decision-making process, but I think that’s the most fair thing to do.”
“Essentially, it’s goods and services that we cannot regularly provide to Mac students because they’re [on the MacDonald campus],” continued Frankel, “so this gives them […] a budget line that allows them to run their own events.”
Former PGSS Financial Affairs Officer Behrang Sharif clarified that “it’s not that we are not giving any money [to MCGSS],” he said. “This was the money that was under another name. We had an agreement with MCGSS that this money is going to go to [Macdonald Campus Students’ Society [MCSS] now they are asking for extra money on top of what we agreed.”
Former PGSS Financial Affairs Officer and current Graduate Students’ Association for Neuroscience (GSAN) council rep Erik Larson spoke against the amendment. “The PGSS grants budget is funded by a referendum question. If we collect this money for the grants project at PGSS, this would be the equivalent of taking money out of the needs-based bursary fund or the library improvements fund – all of which PGSS collects and all of which they remit to the intended recipients of it. […] I don’t think that Council can and should take money from the budget line and give it to another organization.”
The debate centered mostly around what funds PGSS was already sending to MCGSS, and how much this new amendment would contribute to MCGSS’s budget. Eventually, the motion was tabled in light of the information brought up at Council.
New energy management program at McGill
At the general meeting, McGill’s energy manager Jerome Conraud spoke about a new energy program at McGill that might affect students during the winter.
“Essentially, you might know that in Quebec, peak demand for electricity is in the winter […] between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m., and in the afternoon between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m., so to help the utility company, Hydro-Quebec, they have a new incentive program to have customers like [McGill] reduce their power demands during these very cold days [and hours], and that will allow us to not have to purchase electricity at a very high cost from the United States or Ontario.”
Six buildings will be impacted by the energy program: McIntyre Medical Sciences, Penfield 470 (Genome), Wong, and Trottier buildings, and McLennan and Redpath libraries. Conraud assured council members that the heat wouldn’t be turned off completely, but would rather be set at “minimum acceptable levels.” The program will not detrimentally affect labs on campus, but heating will be turned off sequentially in certain areas of the specified buildings to minimize electricity usage.
Conraud acknowledged the disruptive effect this might have on students, but emphasized that the program would assure a $200,000 rebate from Hydro-Quebec by the end of the year, to be invested in energy conservation measures or greenhouse gas reduction measures.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council passes motions on menstrual hygiene policy, fee, and fund
On Thursday, October 20, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council convened for the fourth time in the 2016-2017 academic school year. Councilors heard two guest presentations, one from the Office of the Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) (DPSSL), and one from the Library Improvement Fund Commissioner, as well as a report from SSMU VP University Affairs Erin Sobat regarding unpaid internships at McGill.
Six motions were passed, including a motion to endorse CKUT’s existence referendum question, a motion regarding Midnight Kitchen existence referendum question, a motion regarding the creation of a Musicians Collective Fee, and a motion regarding the free menstrual hygiene products policy.
Council also passed a motion regarding the free menstrual hygiene products fee and health and hygiene products fund referendum question, and a motion to approve the 2015-2016 audited financial statements.
Library Improvement Fund Commissioner Malcolm McClintock gave a presentation on current library projects and the Library Improvement Fund’s work so far this year. One of McGill libraries’ main projects in the next several years will be the “Fiat Lux,” a re-imagining of the Mclennan-Redpath library complex. This includes a proposed robotic storage center housed under Lower Field that will free up space for students to study.
“Thirty per cent of the books haven’t been checked out in twenty years now,” McClintock noted.
“It might not be for our generation of students at McGill, it might not be for the next generation at McGill, but it’s something that is worthwhile,” he added.
McClintock also discussed that the Library Improvement Fund is providing more amenities to make students’ time in libraries more enjoyable and helpful, such as charging stations throughout the libraries.
“We are looking into specifically more space diversity, as well as […] making sure that all these resources and libraries are really relevant to everybody,” he said.
Following his presentation, which highlighted his office’s projects and efforts toward ongoing issues regarding mental health at McGill, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens summarized his thoughts on the state of mental health at the University, in response to a question from VP Student Life Elaine Patterson.
“We want to create the healthiest possible learning environment,” he said.
Creating such an environment necessitates providing students with faster access to mental health and counselling services, he elaborated. Recently, the University implemented a stepped care approach to mental health.
“We know that there’s actually eighty per cent or so of cases that just need one intervention,” he said. “We’re trying to make this a much quicker process so students get that one intervention as quickly as they can.”
“We want to create the healthiest possible learning environment.”
He further noted that improving mental health requires McGill to review its policies, particularly relating to how it assesses students’ needs, and that greater education within the community (including professors, faculty, and staff) is necessary “to understand, recognize, and not ostracize people with these issues.”
A motion was also brought forward to Council regarding Midnight Kitchen’s existence referendum question. The motion asked undergraduate students whether they “agree to the renewal of the opt-outable Midnight Kitchen Fee of $3.35 per student per semester […] with the understanding that a majority ‘no’ vote will result in the termination of all undergraduate fee-levy funding to Midnight Kitchen […]”
It further asked if students supported Midnight Kitchen in continuing to offer up to twenty per cent of its fee budget in discretionary funding to projects that fall under its political mandate.
“We’re trying to make this a much quicker process so students get that one intervention as quickly as they can.”
Councilors voiced concern regarding this part of the motion, noting that Midnight Kitchen has a recurring budgetary surplus. Midnight Kitchen is a non-profit organization, and should therefore theoretically be breaking even financially.
However, a representative from Midnight Kitchen explained that the surplus was the result of previous members not buying necessary kitchen equipment, such as ovens. The collective is currently working on infrastructure improvements, which will lead to a decrease in the surplus.
VP External David Aird noted that “a lot of organizations function [with a rollover fund]. [So] it does remain a non-profit and […] there are things like capital projects that they can’t accommodate on a yearly budget.”
According to Midnight Kitchen’s budget, it does not typically spend the full twenty per cent of the budget available for discretionary funding, and thus councilors were concerned about asking students to support this part of the motion.
Engineering Representative Richard (Tre) Mansdoerfer expressed his discomfort with discretionary funding. “The expectation is that [students] pay for services,” he said. “I don’t think it makes sense to have discretionary funding for any SSMU service.”
Engineering Representative Tristan Renondin brought forth a motion to change the Midnight Kitchen’s discretionary funding from “up to 20 per cent” to “10 per cent.” This motion passed with three abstentions and none against.
“I don’t think it makes sense to have discretionary funding for any SSMU service.”
Following this, the existence referendum question motion passed with 75 per cent of the councilors in favor, 21 per cent against, and four per cent abstaining.
The free menstrual hygiene products policy will provide pads and tampons, among other products, to those students who need them across campus. Patterson explained the products will be distributed at Healthy McGill kiosks across campus, as well as in the gender neutral and gendered bathrooms.
Arts Representative Maria Thomas spoke in favour of the policy, saying “I think having all these availabilities on campus will be really helpful with the stigma about having a period.”
The motion passed with four per cent of councilors abstaining, which led to Council adopting the policy.
However, the motion regarding the menstrual hygiene products fee and health and hygiene products fund referendum question generated more debate. The motion asks students if they support the creation of a non-opt-outable fee of $0.90 per semester per student to supply menstrual hygiene products to students across campus starting Winter 2017.
“I think having all these availabilities on campus will be really helpful with the stigma about having a period.”
SSMU President Ben Ger noted that at the last council meeting, many councilors were concerned about the amount of the fee. The fee is now lower, as it previously accounted for twenty tampons as well as twenty pads per cycle. It now accounts for ten of each type of product, and “we can then start to gauge after the first year to see which product was used more and increase the purchase of [that] product,” he said.
He further noted that any surplus money from the fee would go toward a separate fund to be reserved to purchase alternative products, such as DivaCups.
Senate Caucus Representative Joshua Chin noted that the motion claims up to 56 per cent of undergraduate students will use the products, but the budgetary calculations accounted for fifty per cent of students using them.
SSMU VP Finance Niall Carolan addressed the budgetary issue, explaining that he discovered after calculating the budget that 56 per cent was more accurate, for which he apologized. But he said he does not believe it will have an impact on the purpose of the fee.
“I think it’s more important that we make a commitment to reevaluate where money is being spent and making sure that it is being spent in the most efficient way possible,” he said.
Science Representative Ashby Gangaram asked for the reasoning behind making the fee non-opt-outable.
Carolan explained that the percentage of students who opt out of fees fluctuates each year, and purchasing products on this scale requires advanced planning. As such, “having the kind of stability of knowing exactly how much money year over year will be available greatly eases our purchasing plan and makes the fund much more manageable.”
“I think it’s more important that we make a commitment to reevaluate where money is being spent and making sure that it is being spent in the most efficient way possible.”
SSMU VP University Affairs Erin Sobat also noted that “there’s a lot of people on campus who wouldn’t use this and don’t want to pay for it. Part of the suggestion is that men or others who don’t menstruate shouldn’t [be able to] opt out of this.” The motion passed unanimously.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Members hope to gain leverage in negotiations with the University
On Thursday, October 20, the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) held a special general assembly (GA) where attendees discussed the state of the union, ongoing negotiations with McGill regarding its collective agreement, and to vote on a strike mandate.
AMUSE, accredited in 2010, is the main union representing a network of casual or temporary employees at McGill University, 85 per cent of whose membership consists of student employees on campus. The union has been working since May 2015 to negotiate its second collective agreement with the University.
In an email to The Daily, Maxim Baru, AMUSE Communications and Outreach Officer, clarified the problems with AMUSE’s current collective agreement. “Unions negotiating their first collective agreements are forbidden from striking, thus severely limiting their ability to bargain collectively,” he explained.
“Unions negotiating their first collective agreements are forbidden from striking, thus severely limiting their ability to bargain collectively.”
Baru further claimed that another issue is “McGill University’s apparent commitment to creating greater worker insecurity on campus with the aim to pay people less both directly in terms of low wages, as well as denying us any benefits whatsoever.”
Negotiations have taken place in closed sessions between the elected bargaining team representing AMUSE, McGill’s negotiation team, and a conciliator.
So far, according to Baru, AMUSE has negotiated “further definitions about what psychological harassment looks like and how the complaint procedure will work,” defined clear rest and meal periods provided to employees, further defined employees’ rights under Quebec law, and that an employee will get paid within thirty days of beginning their contract.
However, “while we’ve made progress on some items,” Baru wrote, “McGill University’s position remains opposed to many items of our basic proposal which aims to bring us up to par with our permanent employee counterparts.”
“McGill University [has an] apparent commitment to creating greater worker insecurity on campus with the aim to pay people less both directly in terms of low wages, as well as denying us any benefits whatsoever.”
During the special general assembly, AMUSE members discussed collective agreement priorities and the status of ongoing negotiations, and passed a strike mandate with a majority vote of 82 per cent of those who were present.
Prior to entering negotiations with McGill, AMUSE members voted on bargaining priorities, which included recognition of the contribution of casual employees, increased wages for casual workers, improved job security for those in the Work Study program, and permanency.
The union is particularly dissatisfied with the University’s Work Study program regarding its hiring process and posting system.
“McGill University’s position remains opposed to many items of our basic proposal which aims to bring us up to par with our permanent employee counterparts.”
AMUSE argues that equal treatment of casual workers entails benefits for casual workers, or indemnity for those who cannot receive benefits, contract renewal before contracts are terminated, distinct job titles that accurately reflect the work that is done, and a $15 per hour minimum wage with regular pay increases.
“As a member of the board of representatives […] we’ve been working really hard to mobilize for this GA. It was obviously very important for me, as someone who is active in the union, to be here,” said Kirsten Whelan, a student on the mobilization committee.
Whelan expressed her feelings regarding the state of the bargaining process with the university. “Negotiations have been ongoing on for a year and a half and we haven’t been getting where we need to be. […] In a lot of ways it hasn’t been meeting the needs of our membership.”
“Negotiations have been ongoing on for a year and a half and we haven’t been getting where we need to be. […] In a lot of ways it hasn’t been meeting the needs of our membership.”
AMUSE will be asking for improved posting requirements and hiring priority by seniority for the work study program, as well as ID cards for non-student casual workers. The subsequent bargaining session, on October 24, will focus on the priorities above and call for communication with the union through a committee.
The strike mandate is part of the union’s pressure tactics to move forward on the collective agreement with the University. Previous pressure tactics included putting posters up on campus and handing out pamphlets to McGill Senators before Senate meetings.
To date, the parties discussed “articles on grievance procedure, on the conditions governing access to an employee’s personnel file and on the payment of salaries.”
However the University and the union have not been able to reach an agreement on issues like job posting and granting of other privileges such as McGill ID cards for casual students.
In an interview with The Daily, Claire Michela, President of AMUSE, said, “We’ve reached […] an impasse in bargaining and we’re not going to be able to move forward and support our priorities without the vote of the membership in this way.”
“We’ve reached […] an impasse in bargaining and we’re not going to be able to move forward and support our priorities without the vote of the membership in this way.”
“The vote would give us a strike mandate,” she continued. “So it doesn’t mean we will be going on strike tomorrow, what it means is that the members would have the power, [so] they hold the bargaining priorities and […] the power to call the strike should it be necessary in the coming weeks.”
Michela described the strike mandate as “the most significant moment in AMUSE’s history since its inception,” because “a casual union is very rare in a university campus or anywhere else.”
She added that “the labour movement started because workers were dissatisfied with their conditions and they realized that by organizing collectively, they could have the power to change some things about their workplace and get rid of the harmful aspects of working […], make their conditions safer, more fair, share the fruits of their labour better, […] to end exploitation in the workplace. To show our collective will as a casual union would be […] pretty incredible.”
“To show our collective will as a casual union would be […] pretty incredible.”
Implications of the mandate
During the question period, AMUSE clarified that the strike mandate would allow the bargaining team to call for a strike at any point during the negotiations; however, a strike will only be used when necessary.
The votes were calculated with ballots, available to all members of AMUSE present at the assembly. If a strike is declared, AMUSE members are protected by the legal right to be absent from work under Quebec law.
After the strike mandate was passed by the members, Heather Holdsworth, the elected Vice President of Labour Relations, spoke about the implications of the mandate.
“Our next bargaining session is this coming Monday morning, and now that McGill will know that we have voted to strike should the bargaining team call for a strike, it means that at this bargaining table, we will actually have leverage and power,” she said in an interview with The Daily. “So it’s their turn to present something.”
“[The strike mandate] means that at this bargaining table, we will actually have leverage and power.”
“[The University has] been saying no, they’ve been saying no to everything and for the first time we will really feel empowered walking in there,” Holdsworth continued. “It’s a threat. I mean, a strike mandate is a very serious implication that we have the capability to hold the way that McGill will function for an amount of time.”
Holdsworth concluded by saying, “I’m really hopeful that come Monday, the bargaining tone will be different, now that we have the strike mandate and we can move forward on some of our priorities.”
Whelan also shared her sentiments regarding the majority vote, saying that “this strike mandate that we’ve gotten [from the membership will] be really important going forward in order to ensure that our next collective agreement is stronger than our first one.”
“[The University has] been saying no, they’ve been saying no to everything and for the first time we will really feel empowered walking in there.”
Whelan added that “it’s really exciting to know that we have a […] strong mandate from our membership with such a high percentage of support for a strike mandate. […] I’m really hopeful that this will be productive moving forward in improving our collective agreement.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
