The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
No end in sight to teacher union collective agreement negotiations
The Fédération autonome de l’enseignement (FAE) – a Quebec-wide teachers union representing more than 34,000 French-language teachers in Quebec – held a rally on January 16 to protest recent budget cuts to Quebec’s public school system, which have forced some schools to close due to lack of maintenance or funding.
At least a hundred teachers, parents of students, and other supporters gathered in front of the historic Maisonneuve market, and subsequently marched through the streets of the Hochelaga-Maisonneuve district, stopping by several schools in disrepair, emphasizing what they claimed were the repercussions of the government’s actions.
“The failure of the provincial government to protect public schools by not providing for funding is a threat to social progress.”
Rallying cries from protest leaders could be heard before the march began.
“The failure of the provincial government to protect public schools by not providing for funding is a threat to social progress,” said one speaker in French to the crowd.
Despite a January 15 announcement from Quebec’s Minister of Education François Blais of a new $500 million investment in funding for Quebec’s schools, many teachers at the demonstration agreed that it was not enough.
Several demonstrators carried signs that caricatured various Quebec ministers and the premier.
In addition, the members of the FAE are also dissatisfied with the collective agreement negotiations happening with the provincial government.
The FAE, which represents one third of Quebec’s teachers, has yet to reach an agreement. Despite this, public sector unions including the Fédération des syndicats de l’enseignement (FSE) and the Quebec Provincial Association of Teachers (QPAT) have been able to reach tentative agreements with the government.
Orlando, an affiliate of the Trotskyist League, one of the many far-left groups that attended the demonstration in solidarity, criticized the current government for its actions.
“We are here to support the teachers who are not happy with the settlement the government has recommended to them because it doesn’t meet their basic demands,” Orlando told The Daily. “The austerity attacks are not just confined to Quebec; Greece, Britain, South Africa also see a lot of attacks. There are a lot of lessons to be drawn from here.”
The FAE has accused the Quebec government of neglecting public school teachers, claiming that the government’s austerity measures leave teachers with little support and not enough funding to properly teach their students.
“We are here to support the teachers who are not happy with the settlement the government has recommended to them because it doesn’t meet their basic demands.”
Among the demonstrators was a contingent from McGill, organized by the campus group McGill Against Austerity.
In an interview with The Daily, Adam Mac Kenzie, a member of McGill Against Austerity, explained that the group focuses on “spreading information about austerity and how it affects greater Quebec society.”
“We went to the demonstration to stand in solidarity with the teachers and their continuing struggle against […] cuts to their salaries, increasing class sizes, decreasing help to special needs students [and] school closures,” Mac Kenzie continued. “This is an issue that affects everyone. Austerity is being felt all over the globe […] and without more pressure tactics, I don’t expect the Quebec government to give in much.”
“I can’t accurately predict what their next move will be, but I think they’re going to continue to play hardball.”
Speaking to what he thinks the outcome of the negotiations will be, Mac Kenzie said, “I can’t accurately predict what their next move will be, but I think they’re going to continue to play hardball […] at least until the spring, and then we’ll see what happens.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Electoral process characterized by cycle of marginalization 
Approximately sixty people gathered on January 18, the 87th anniversary of Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday, at the Ligue des Noirs du Québec in Côte-des-Neiges to attend a press conference. According to an English press release from Marvin Rotrand, City Councillor of Snowdon, the conference was to focus on the fact that “visible minorities remain severely underrepresented” in municipal councils across Canada and specifically in Montreal, as well as to announce an upcoming motion that will raise this issue in the 2017 municipal elections. Statistics Canada defines a “visible minority,” as a “category [that] includes persons who are non-Caucasian in race or non-white in colour and who do not report being Aboriginal.”
The panel was chaired by Rotrand, who was joined by Sud-Ouest borough mayor Benoit Dorais, Peter-McGill councillor and Vrai changement pour Montréalrepresentative Steve Shanahan, Vieux-Rosemont councillor Érika Duchesne, school board councillor of Côte-des-Neiges-Snowdon Khokon Maniruzzaman, and Erik Hamon, who was a candidate in the municipal elections of 2013
The press release revealed that while Montreal has a 32.3 per cent visible minority population, only 6 of 208 municipal elected officials on the island of Montreal are visible minorities. These six officials are Frantz Benjamin and Alan De Sousa, members of the Montreal City Council; Monica Rincourt and Nathalie Pierre-Antoine, members of various Montreal Borough Councils; and Errol Johnson and Minh Diem Li Thi, members of Dollard des Ormeaux council and Town of Mount Royal council, respectively.
“Montreal is unique in that it has a party system at a municipal level.”
Rotrand organized the conference to stimulate public debate in anticipation for his motion tabled for the January 25 session of the City Council. This motion will address lack of representation in the upcoming 2017 election. The Montreal Gazette reported that in the 2013 election, a record number of visible minorities ran for positions. According to Rotrand, however, several were last-minute additions in districts where they had no chance of winning.
Rotrand’s motion is supported by Coalition Montréal, Vrai changement pour Montréal, and five independent councillors.
In an interview with The Daily, Rotrand explained that the goal of the motion is not to impose a minority quota for Montreal political parties.
“Montreal is unique in that it has a party system at a municipal level,” he said. “In a perfect world, we will use [the municipal party system] to change the complexion of City Hall.”
“I would like to see a slate of candidates across the board that is a lot more representative of this city.”
A repeated topic of the conference was that some political parties typically nominate a candidate based on “electability,” complicating the municipal electoral process. Visible minority candidates often do not perform as well as candidates who are not visible minorities because, in Shanahan’s words, “voters want people who they feel represent them, and often those are people who look like them.” As such, municipal parties may be tempted to nominate only non-visible minority candidates – fuelling a cycle of a lack of representation of visible minority candidates, Shanahan explained.
The Daily spoke with panel member Erik Hamon, a Coalition Montreal candidate of Filipino descent who lost the 2013 election by roughly 300 votes to Équipe Coderre’s Lionel Perez in the Darlington district.
“I would just like to see [visible minorities] in the party who make the decisions about who the candidates should be, or the [unaffiliated] people who are becoming candidates themselves,” explained Hamon. “I would like to see a slate of candidates across the board that is a lot more representative of this city.”
Canadian municipal governments are grossly underrepresentative of their racialized populations; even cities with ‘visible minority’ populations that are above 50 per cent. For example, in Brampton, Ontario, despite its 67.1 per cent ‘visible minority’ population, only one city councillor of ten (Gurpreet Dhillon) is a ‘visible minority.’ Similarly, Surrey, British Columbia has a ‘visible minority’ population of 55.5 per cent, but only one councillor of eight is a ‘visible minority’ (Tom Gill).
“If you look at the political system, it’s white. It’s a reflection of the political system.”
In an email to The Daily, Rotrand elaborated that “there are several persons of Chinese origin or heritage on some municipal councils such as in Vancouver. Indeed, most of the visible minority councillors are southeast, east or south Asian origin or heritage. [However,] there are really very few Black elected councillors.”
The Daily spoke with Dan Philip, Director of the Ligue Des Noirs du Québec, after the event, who said that panels like these are important and necessary in the electoral process because they “awaken consciousness as to the necessity of everybody participating within the political system, so people can be adequately represented.”
Philip noted that while the seven-member panel had only three visible minority panelists sitting on it, “if you look at the political system, it’s white. It’s a reflection of the political system. […] People will help us to move, but we have to move ourselves. We have to create this type of desire for [representation] at all levels of the political system. Not just municipally, but provincially and federally as well.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students come together to discuss the question: “Who is God?”
Over 100 students gathered at the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) ballroom on January 20, where the Muslim Students Association (MSA) and a number of McGill Christian clubs (McGill Christian Fellowship, Newman Catholic Students’ Society, Power to Change, ICON, and International Student Ministries) organized an interfaith dialogue. The event was part of Uncover McGill, a week long initiative by Christian groups at McGill to discuss spiritual questions. Mohamad Jebara, chief imam and resident scholar at the Cordova Spiritual Education Center, and Abdu Murray, the scholar in residence of Christian Thought and Apologetics at the Josh McDowell Institute of Oklahoma Wesleyan University, came together to discuss the question, “Who is God?”
The interfaith dialogue focused on the conception of God in Muslim and Christian traditions. Underscoring some of the similarities between the two faiths, Murray reiterated the importance of positive interbelief dialogue, saying, “We can agree to disagree without being disagreeable.”
The dialogue brought together students of differents faiths, providing them with a platform to ask questions and discuss the differences and similarities of their beliefs.
When asked about the importance of interfaith dialogue, Armanda Megne Ekoga, a U1 Political Science and African Studies student who attended the panel, told The Daily, “There are still so many conflicts over religion, so it’s important for us to share thoughts and to share love just to know what other people think and keep the dialogue going.”
“It’s important for us to share thoughts and to share love just to know what other people think and keep the dialogue going.”
Jebara, an advocate of social responsibility and universal values, underlined the loving nature of God and stressed the importance of being “accepting and tolerant of diversity and difference.”
Francis Guruma, a Kindergarten Education student, agreed. “[Diversity] is a good opportunity to learn from other people [… and] to eliminate preconceptions and stereotypes. The more we learn from each other, the more we learn to accept [each other],” Guruma told The Daily.
Speaking to The Daily, Munema Moiz, a U3 Neuroscience student who is Muslim, said, “I think at McGill, we’re very lucky because there are a lot of events and they really try to create a sense of community. And I also think we’re lucky because Montreal is such a diverse city. As a Muslim, you can easily find other Muslims and show your culture and your faith.”
Jordan Weeks, an organizer of Uncover McGill, underscored the fact that interfaith dialogue has to be initiated by students. “The university is secular; it can’t take an official position on any of these questions,” Weeks said.
“But what we can do is hold a dialogue between people who genuinely hold these positions and will argue on behalf of them in a respectful and kind way, that’s not polemic, that’s not argumentative. That’s interfaith dialogue.”
Similarly, Sandra Yogendran, one of the co-organizers of the talk, believes such events “can unearth questions that people might not take the time to think about in the business of life and it’s an opportunity for people to find truth as well as find new friendships and learn about other perspectives.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students at McGill required to divulge diagnoses, despite York case
 Correction appended on January 25.
In early January Navi Dhanota, a student at York University, won a settlement against the university regarding the need to name and diagnose a specific mental illness in order to receive academic accommodations, among other issues. As a result, York students are no longer required to divulge a diagnosis to receive accommodations. At McGill, however, disclosing a medical diagnosis is still a requirement for such services.
Teri Phillips, Director of the McGill Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD), told The Daily in an email that “students are required by the Quebec government to provide documentation that confirms their eligibility for services,” which includes a medical diagnosis.
Dhanota filed a human rights complaint on the basis that denying students accommodations based on their lack of a psychiatric label was not suitable. However, York students will still require an assessment by a licensed doctor to confirm an existing condition before receiving accommodations.
“Students’ rights are violated because often students are [asked] to disclose diagnoses [to professors] in order to get those kind of accommodations.”
According to the Journal of Postsecondary Education and Disability, mental illnesses have become increasingly common among university students, rising by nearly 70 per cent from 2006 to 2011 at Ontario colleges. In an interview with The Daily, Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke said that the OSD has “seen an enormous increase of students registering at their office, and a large part of that is mental health or mental illness.”
When it comes to accommodations for mental illness, Rourke said that accommodations decided between individual students and professors are a large problem.
Some students do not identify mental health issues as a disability and therefore don’t register with the OSD, so “there is a lot of discretion given to the professor and I would argue that is not good practice at all,” she explained.
Some professors may ask students to provide a note from a medical professional with a diagnosis, even though the students are not required to do so by any law or regulation.
“Students’ rights are violated because often students are [asked] to disclose diagnoses [to professors] in order to get those kind of accommodations,” said Rourke, calling the practice “unfair and inappropriate.”
Jean,* a U2 Mathematics student, told The Daily, “[The] OSD has been more than supportive when it came to accommodating me.” He receives an extra twenty minutes for each hour spent on written assignments because of his sleep disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and writes exams in the OSD offices.
The only issue he encountered “was when a professor gave advice about a specific question to the class during an exam, but failed to notify [the] OSD of what he had said.”
“This lack of communication between professors and OSD staff is alarming, as a student’s grade on an exam can easily be changed by a few letter grades without the necessary information to write the assessment properly,” he continued.
U2 student Alex* told The Daily that she didn’t feel that the OSD always acted fairly.
“It seems as though I have to advocate for myself and I don’t have a support team with me,” she said. “The OSD itself will not tell professors to grant me spelling forgiveness or grammatical help. [… I have to] explain to each professor why I want it, and they have the right to tell me whether or not they can give it to me.”
“It becomes harder [to accommodate students] once the needs become specific. [The] OSD is set in their ways.”
Consequently, she said, some professors have not wanted to grant her these accommodations because they thought she was receiving “special treatment.”
Rourke also noted that there is “resistance in a minority of cases of professors […] almost to the point of being prejudiced against [people with] disabilities.”
Despite the accommodations provided to Alex, she said that this does not always put her on an equal level with other students. For instance, in one course with pop quizzes, she “wasn’t given extra time, nor a computer to type on, nor spelling forgiveness.” Additionally, if an in-class test only takes half the class time, the extra time the OSD provides her forces her to miss the rest of her lecture.
Jean agreed, adding, “it becomes harder [to accommodate students] once the needs become specific. [The] OSD is set in their ways.”
For example, because his sleep disorder means he can’t function as well in the morning, Jean sought an accommodation that would allow him to write exams later in the day, but he was unable to receive it “due to the way [the OSD] structures exam writing.”
Rourke emphasized that in the wake of the York settlement, she wants to see McGill have “an interim period where students can receive accommodations without having a medical note because they acknowledge there are lot of access barriers toward getting that documentation.”
She further added that there is a considerable waitlist for students for mental health services, and that out-of-province and international students face added difficulties in receiving a diagnosis, such as concerns regarding whether or not their insurance covers the doctor’s visit.
Rourke noted that the OSD was struggling with the increased demand. “I know that the advisors are very overextended and they’ve had to readjust their priorities accordingly,” she said.
Still, Rourke said that “most students […] are pleased with most of the services the [OSD] offers.”
“I know that the advisors are very overextended and they’ve had to readjust their priorities accordingly.”
However, Phillips said that wait times at the OSD typically do not exceed two weeks. She also added that while students work to obtain the necessary documents, “in most cases […] a temporary accommodation plan will be put in place.”
“The restrictive and prescriptive processes that might exist at some post-secondary institutions are not the reality at McGill,” Phillips continued.
Moving forward, Alex believes OSD advisors should work on keeping up relations with students who do register with the OSD. In her experience, the first advisor she met never followed up with her.
“You might meet with a million students, but you’re still supposed to be that [supporting] person, so you should follow up,” she said.
“If that student feels that they’re not getting the support they need you should make sure to help them. Because telling students to go to a writing centre puts a blanket over the whole issue, when in reality there’s a lot of holes.”
An earlier version of this article incorrectly quoted SSMU VP University Affairs Chloe Rourke as having said there are considerable waitlists for students to register at the OSD. In fact, Rourke was referring to considerable waitlists for mental health services. The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
