The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
GA sees allegations of anti-Semitism; further criticism of President
Content warning: anti-Semitism
The Students Society of McGill University (SSMU) Fall General Assembly (GA) convened on Monday, October 23. Over 200 students attended. The GA convenes once each semester and is the main forum in which students who are not directly involved in student government can make their voices heard.
Motion of non-confidence in SSMU President
The night began on a contentious note, with Arts Representative Kevin Zhou proposing a suspension of Robert’s rules in order to adopt all late motions to the agenda. Normally, this would not be in order, but due to a failure on behalf of the SSMU President, Muna Tojiboeva, to notify the public of deadlines for submitting motions, all of the motions were sent in late.
The proposed motions included a motion advocating for SSMU to urge McGill to support and participate in the International Institute of Education’s Syria consortium for higher education in crisis, a motion for SSMU to condemn the disciplinary action which was then being taken against Masuma Asad Khan by Dalhousie University, a motion regarding changes to the SSMU Sustainability Policy, and a motion of non-confidence in the SSMU President. Later during the assembly a motion was proposed by a member regarding the SSMU building closure.
The audience voted to suspend Robert’s rules and adopt the agenda as a whole, however, SSMU Director, Jonathan Glustein, took issue with the method of counting the vote and demanded a recount. This led to a protracted debate about the method of voting, Glustein asserting multiple times that he could not accept a vote that wasn’t counted by hand. Ultimately, after considerable delay and confusion, the vote passed and the agenda was not adopted.
All motions were added to the agenda, however, except the motion of non-confidence in SSMU President Muna Tojiboeva. After a vote by secret ballot that took roughly half an hour to administer, the motion was rejected, falling short of the two-thirds majority needed to adopt it onto the agenda despite earning the support of more than half the students in the room. Some members expressed frustration with this decision, voicing concerns about the lack of information Tojiboeva made public about the deadline for submitting motions.
due to a failure on behalf of the SSMU President, Muna Tojiboeva, to notify the public of deadlines for submitting motions, all of the motions were sent in late.
Catherine, a U3 Arts student, urged the Speaker to reconsider the vote.
“I’m wondering why this is our voting procedure when the only reason why we have to do this is because of Muna’s incompetency,” said Catherine. “This reinforces the motion that was proposed because she messed up.” This proposal was not in order, however, and the motion of non-confidence was not debated.
Nominating the new Board of Directors
Following this contentious vote, the agenda was adopted, and the assembly moved on to ratifying the 2017/2018 Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors is the highest governing body in SSMU, with the power to ratify motions passed in Legislative Council and references from the Judicial Board. According to the Constitution, it must be made up of 12 members: four SSMU executives, four legislative councilors, and four members-at-large. The question of whether or not this combination of Directors is the only permissible composition for the Board is currently the subject of a tense debate in the upper echelons of SSMU. This is because until late September, when VP Student Life Jemark Earle took office as a Director, there were only three executives and an overwhelming nine members-at-large serving, throwing the Board’s decisions during this period into questionable legal territory.
On November 15, however, the Board for the new academic year is scheduled to take office. As such, the nominations up for debate at the GA included President Muna Tojiboeva, VP Finance Arisha Khan, VP Internal Maya Koparkar, VP Student Life Jemark Earle, Vivian Campbell, Madeleine Kausel, Noah Lew, Mana Moshkfaroush, Josephine Wright-O’Manique, Jessica Rau, Alexandre Scheffel, and Kevin Zhou. The four executives are currently serving on the Board, as are members-at-large Lew and Scheffel. The President and the VP Finance are constitutionally mandated to serve on the Board, so the nominations of Tojiboeva and Khan were not up for vote, and they were automatically ratified.
What followed was a debate about whether or not to divide the question of ratification for the other ten nominees, meaning the audience would have to vote on each nomination separately instead of ratifying the list in its entirety. VP Internal Maya Koparkar motioned to divide the question, and despite vehement opposition from a few students, the motion passed.
Vivian Campbell, Madeleine Kausel, Maya Koparkar, Jemark Earle, Mana Moshkfaroush, Jessica Rau and Kevin Zhou were all voted onto this year’s Board with overwhelming support. Noah Lew, Josephine Wright-O’Manique, and Alexandre Scheffel all fell short of the threshold to be ratified onto the Board of Directors.
Noah Lew was the first contentious nominee. When the Speaker announced that he had not been voted onto the Board, a large group of people stood up and filed out of the ballroom. It was subsequently announced via social media that the group had left in order to protest the vote against Lew, which they perceived to be motivated by anti-Semitism.
the group had left in order to protest the vote against Lew, which they perceived to be motivated by anti-Semitism.
Other business
Following the ratification of the Board of Directors, the audience voted in favour of the motion advocating for SSMU to lobby the university to provide scholarships and other educational supports to Syrian refugees. A U3 Arts student expressed support for the motion:
“2.2 million Syrian students outside of the country are not in school. […] It’s safe to say that the majority of refugees in the countries that are taking […] refugees aren’t being educated properly. […] You can understand why they are being called the ‘lost generation’ […] and why it’s being called an education crisis. And, despite these statistics, despite the fact that so many nations have taken refugees, there has been no form of institutional support for people who need to continue their post-secondary education.”
The GA also voted with overwhelming support to condemn the disciplinary action being taken by Dalhousie University against Masuma Asad Khan. VP External Connor Spencer gave context for the motion.
“This is a student executive at the Dalhousie Student Union who had a formal complaint lodged against her for her activism work within the union, and the university decided to entertain it, [accusing her] of discrimination against white people that she has perpetuated by speaking of white fragility in the context of anti-colonial Canada 150 events.”
The GA also voted to pass the motion amending the SSMU sustainability policy.
After these motions pass, U1 Arts student, Nadine Pelaez, an exec from the Player’s Theatre, brought a motion to the floor asking SSMU to draft a concrete action plan for dealing with the building closure. They communicated feeling abandoned by SSMU given the value of the Players Theatre to students, and stressed the failure of SSMU to make arrangements for temporary space during the scheduled Spring renovations.
Pelaez quoted from the SSMU website to stress the importance of this motion: “SSMU’s primary obligation shall be to support affiliated student groups and […] student endeavors shall be prioritized over any other sort of endeavor in SSMU’s space.”
Anastasia Dudley, a U3 student and representative from Midnight Kitchen echoed these sentiments. The audience passed the motion with overwhelming support.
During the question period, Arno Pedram, a Culture Editor at The Daily, asked President Muna Tojiboeva to respond to the fact that a majority of the students present voted in favour of bringing forward a motion of non-confidence in her. Tojiboeva responded by claiming that she is supported by the larger McGill community, and will not be influenced by the non-confidence of a comparatively small group, and then proceeded to accuse the audience of anti-Semitism.
“There are 24,000 people at McGill so clearly 160 people at the GA are not the majority. I would also like to point out the fact that today 160 people voted no for a director only for one reason, because he was Jewish. […] At the moment, I represent the minority in the student politics but I actually represent the majority at McGill. I’m sick and tired of the GAs being seen as the majority.”
Pedram responded, “Yes, this body isn’t the majority of students, but it still represents students who care.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Suzanne Fortier talks mental health, sexual violence, and fentanyl 
On October 27, Principal Suzanne Fortier, Student Services Executive Director Martine Gauthier, and Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens sat down with campus media to answer their questions.
Before the question period began, Fortier took the chance to discuss the importance of respect on campus, drawing parallels between conflict and lack of respect in the McGill context and her understanding of the Rwandan genocide. 
Speaking of her recent trip to Kigali, capital city of Rwanda, Fortier said, “It is impressive to see a country rebuild itself with a lot of strength and resilience. […] it is a reminder for all of us to be vigilant about respecting other people, no matter what they come from, no matter what their religion is, no matter what their ethnicity is. We need to respect people as equal to us […] when you go to a place like Kigali, or Rwanda in general, you see what happens when you let go of that vigilance, when you let go of those principles. […] Whenever [….] a situation on our campus where I see any signs of this happening, I will not be there watching it passively. We all need to stand up, very clearly, to defend the principles of our university. […] As principal, there is no role in my job that is more important than protecting the principles of our university and making sure that people who come to our university can be assured that they will be treated with respect.”
“When you go to a place like Kigali, or Rwanda in general, you see what happens when you let go of that vigilance, when you let go of those principles. […] Whenever [….] a situation on our campus where I see any signs of this happening, I will not be there watching it passively.”
Bull and Bear (B&B): In September of this year, yourself and Deputy Provost Ollivier Dyens came into a SSMU senate caucus to advocate against the idea of a fall reading week. Why, in your opinion, should McGill be one of the only major universities in Canada to not have a fall reading week?
Suzanne Fortier (SF): We are not similar to many universities in that many students come from outside of the immediate community. […] If you start the semester early or end it later, it has an impact on a very large proportion of our students, and […] when we consult the students, we don’t have unanimous views on whether or not, and how to do it. Some students are worried about paying rent in August, or not having enough time for their holiday break anyway. […] It’s not practical, this is not a cause for us because of practical considerations, and particularly [what] the students we consult share with us.
McGill Daily (MD): We recently recieved a concerning email regarding McGill Mental Health Services. The author says, “McGill has just about eliminated actual treatment services, especially expert psychotherapy services.[…] McGill Mental Health psychiatrists […] are dismayed by recent changes, but are too frightened to act themselves, [therefore] have already left or are planning to leave.” While the new changes involved are well intentioned, students have also expressed discontentment. How does McGill’s administration respond?
Ollivier Dyens (OD): [The author of the letter] has had problems at McGill, […] and I think that would give you some perspective as to who this person is. […] I would find it very interesting that this person tells us what to do at McGill when this person is not at McGill, doesn’t know what’s going on at McGill […] I don’t put a lot of value on what this person is saying, you can look it up for yourself.
Martine Gauthier (MG): Our counselling area is the area that really provides the support for our students, and we’ve increased capacity in that area. We’ve increased capacity for students, […] we’re looking for different ways to expand our services. […] We’d added two case workers […] we’re also going to be adding triage advisors.
“Our counselling area is the area that really provides the support for our students, and we’ve increased capacity in that area. […] We’d added two case workers […] we’re also going to be adding triage advisors.”
Le Delit (LD): So McGill’s policy on sexual violence has been rated a C-, what do you think about this score and how do you plan on making it higher?
SF: We now have a sexual violence policy approved by senate, we were one of the first universities in this province to have a policy. […] It is essential to separate the support that people must recieve right away when they need it, […] from the investigation that must occur. When you’re under a difficult situation, suffering, it’s not the time to assault you with an investigation.
OD: For the first time in our history, there were no reported incidents of sexual assault at Frosh. Somehow, the things we are doing […] are improving. There’s been […] workshops across the university for students. […] The Provost has created an office, we’ve hired another person, there’s an implementation committee that’s been struck, […] there’s also a committee that’s looking at a survey […] these two groups will come together, tell us their recommendations on how to implement many of the recommendations. My concern is not how we compare to other universities, my concern is having the best, safest, most welcoming environment for everyone. 
“For the first time in our history, there were no reported incidents of sexual assault at Frosh. Somehow, the things we are doing […] are improving.”
McGill Tribune (MT): In an email you sent to the entire student body, you announced an investigation into allegations of antisemetism at this most recent General Assembly. Can you expand on the mandate of that investigation, and also verify whether you are investigating whether SSMU breached it’s charters or bylaws?
SF: It’s an allegation [of antisemetism], and we have to do the fair thing, and investigate. But I think we have to ask ourselves, how many people on our campus are subjected to situations that are discriminatory, disrespectful, and so that’s a longer piece of work that we need to do, and that’s why the task force has been set up. […] We have a person with whom we will discuss the exact process of the investigation, and the scope of the investigation. […] If a similar situation occurred where all the women had been voted out, I would do the same thing.
B&B: Given the fentanyl crisis that’s currently going on, what steps have been taken to address the Quebec government’s policy on who can distribute Naloxone kits?
MG: Dr. Hashana Perera, who is our director of Health Services, has been very active on this front, and actually began preparations this summer as she saw the trend moving east. So this week we actually finished training, we have as of this week trained a hundred people to actually administer Naloxone. […] Our McGill Student Emergency Response Team (MSERT), […] security, […] floor fellows, […] residence life managers, […] night stewards. We have over 100 […] antidotes on campus.
“This week we actually finished training, we have as of this week trained a hundred people to actually administer Naloxone. […] We have over 100 […] antidotes on campus.”
MD: Issues of allegations of sexual assault against a McGill professor have been unresponsive, relatively, and students investigating sexual violence at McGill are constantly being stopped by the administration. Holding abusive professors accountable is just as important as investigating allegations of antisemetism, why is this not taking place?
SF: People at this university are not fully aware of the laws of our country and province, regarding privacy and access to information. […] When it comes to access to information, there are certain things that are to be kept private. You will not hear about investigations […] the absence of information does not mean the absence of investigation. […] If people ask us questions that we cannot answer, publicly, that is because we have privacy legislation that we must abide by.
B&B: Accessibility is a major concern for students with injuries, or simply mobility issues on campus. What can be done to improve accessibility on campus?
MG: In our OSD, McGill reinvested almost a million dollars. […] We hired a number of positions, among them an accessibility officer. [He] knows our campus very, very well, and is working with another advisor, who is a gentleman who uses a wheelchair, and together they have been […] identifying areas that could be improved through very simple methods.
MD: You mentioned that while we dont hear about [investigations regarding sexual violence], it doesn’t mean that there is no investigation. But we’re talking about multiple faculties, with a range of—
SF: Let me put it very simply. If there is an allegation, a serious allegation, we do investigate. I don’t want to talk about a specific case here. I’ll talk in general. If there’s a serious allegation, we will investigate. Now, we will investigate in the context in which we live, which has a respect for privacy, and a respect for […] universal justice. […] Sometimes people in society in general, and at McGill, want to have a public disclosure when this is not allowed, not permitted, and not appropriate.
“If there’s a serious allegation […] we will investigate in the context in which we live, which has a respect for privacy, and a respect for […] universal justice. […] Sometimes people in society in general, and at McGill, want to have a public disclosure when this is not allowed, not permitted, and not appropriate.”
MD: Yes, I agree with you that we should work within the rules, and privacy and rights are very important, but at the same time, what we’re seeing is recurring patterns of professors. It’s almost become common knowledge to students, and—
SF: This is what you’ve heard. […] If there are serious allegations, we will look into it […] within the authority that we have in a university. We are not a court of law. We are a university. So let’s make sure we understand where we have authority, where we don’t, what we can do, what we can’t. This is the context here.
“We are not a court of law. We are a university. So let’s make sure we understand where we have authority, where we don’t, what we can do, what we can’t. This is the context here.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Former Petro-Canada executive appointed to university position
On October 25, around 30 students gathered outside the James Administration Building for a “book blockade” organized by Divest McGill. The group set up book stands in front of the entrance to promote awareness of fossil fuel’s role in climate change. The demonstration was planned strategically to precede the Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility’s (CAMSR) first meeting of the academic year.
Divest McGill is a student-run group on campus that demands the University divest from fossil fuel companies. The campaign at McGill has been running for the past five years.
Morgen Bertheussen, a member of Divest McGill, told The Daily that “[we’re] here today, because CAMSR […] decided to reject our [last] demand [to divest] because they had said the worst effects aren’t being felt today and there was no social injury to McGill’s investment into fossil fuels.”
According to the terms of reference for CAMSR by the Board of Governors, “the term ‘social injury’ means the grave injurious impact which the activities of a company is found to have on consumers, employees, or other persons, or on the natural environment. Such activities include those which violate, or frustrate the enforcement of rules of domestic or international law intended to protect individuals against deprivation of health, safety, or basic freedoms, or to protect the natural environment.”
“There’s so much evidence that proves […] that social injury is happening. We’re meeting them today with books on the fossil fuel industry impact and [on] climate change,” said Bertheussen. “In a few steps, they have all this information to divest from the fossil fuel industry. The new chair worked for Petro-Canada for 18 years.”
The new chair is Cynthia Price Verreault, who will serve on the Board until June 30, 2020. An alumna of McGill, Price Verreault also worked as the Director of Retail Services at Petro-Canada from 1982 to 2000.
Another member of Divest McGill, Annabelle Couture-Guillet, expressed, “We wanted something educational; it doesn’t always work to be confrontational. For me divestment is about talking about climate change, yes there’s the political side of it, but it’s really just bringing attention.” Couture-Guillet expanded on this, saying, “Our goal is to interact with the community at McGill. [Climate change] is what many of us study every day in class. That’s maybe the most ironic part of the whole thing.”
“We wanted something educational; it doesn’t always work to be confrontational. For me divestment is about talking about climate change, yes there’s the political side of it, but it’s really just bringing attention.”
“The McGill administration is willing to set up meetings with us. Whether these meetings are effective is another question. They recommended a test fund for fossil free investment, and this fund has been implemented but it is very small, starting with five million,” noted Hala Fakhroo, a member of Divest McGill at the event. Comparably, McGill’s endowment is $1.6 billion.
“It’s nice to see faces of friends who support this cause, and building a community of caring [about] this really relevant issue. We’re really dependent on our people power, we try to have an event once a semester but we meet often to engage. Small projects based on committee work are usually implemented,” Bertheussen later added.
As members entered into the James Administration Building, many seemed surprised by the demonstration. Ram Panda, chair of the McGill Board of Governors, and Price Verreault shook hands, smiled, and made some stifled small talk with Divest McGill members. Couture-Guillet commented, “It’s important we establish a relationship, rather than have a contrarian discourse. Obviously, it’s still very frustrating, but more progress can be done if we’re on good terms with each other.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
