The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Attendees discuss need for mobilization
On Wednesday February 1, about a hundred people gathered in the Henry F. Hall building at Concordia University to discuss how to resist the new Trump administration. The meeting, organized in part by the group Resist Trump and the Far Right Network and hosted by Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG) Concordia, was aimed at introducing new members to the anti-Trump movement that they have been promoting.
The meeting aimed to “provide folks with an opportunity to engage themselves in our various subgroups, including an action/demo committee, mobilizing to disrupt Trump’s eventual visit to Ottawa, a a popular education group to organize workshops and events, as well as a network building and communication committee,” according to the event’s Facebook page.
“Let’s turn our collective anger into action by working together to build short and long term plans to resist the racism, sexism and far-right politics that Donald Trump represents,” it concluded.
“Resist Trump” brands itself as a grassroots organization that seeks to organize activities to resist and disrupt the Trump administration’s agenda, whether by protesting in solidarity with Americans or disrupting a Trump visit to Ottawa.
“Let’s turn our collective anger into action by working together to build short and long term plans to resist the racism, sexism and far-right politics that Donald Trump represents.”
The group is loosely organized, with sections dedicated to organizing action, online activism, and education. They have organized several anti-Trump protests, including one of the larger protests in Montreal on inauguration day, and were part of the reason that President Trump’s planned trip to Ottawa was canceled due to fear of disruptive protests.
In an interview with The Daily, Anas Bouslikhane, who joined Resist Trump shortly after the election, said, “We must view how autonomously, collectively we can respond to the structures that have been against us for so long; so that is the political parties, the big businesses, the big corporations, the oil industry that have been attacking Indigenous people […], and the legal system. […] How do we collectively confront this enormous global far-right that is slowly becoming a reality?”
“We can tangibly do these things, we can […] start conversation, we can tangibly get together like we are doing today […] and we can […] go ahead and go to the borders and we can challenge those.” he said.
“You can say no to a wall, you can take down a wall, because nobody gets hurt with that,” Bouslikhane continued. “[Walls] block lives and kill because those mean death sentences to people, whether it’s a physical wall or it’s a signature, so an abstract wall […]. Those are all borders that we can collectively challenge, resist, and hopefully take down.”
“We must view how autonomously, collectively we can respond to the structures that have been against us for so long; so that is the political parties, the big businesses, the big corporations, the oil industry that have been attacking Indigenous people […], and the legal system. […] How do we collectively confront this enormous global far-right that is slowly becoming a reality?”
There was a general sense of urgency in the room, as all in attendance voiced both concern and an eagerness to fight back.
“I am incredibly concerned about the […] global rise of the far right. I think that not enough people talk about far-right extremism; it is an incredibly significant issue, increasingly because of people of people like Donald Trump getting elected to positions of power,” member of “Resist Trump” and event organizer Nicole LeBlanc told The Daily.
“[Donald Trump] is explicitly racist, misogynist, he advocates anti-LGBT policies, he advocates anti-immigrant policies, and has actually enforced many of those, so it is very, very scary.”
Although Trump’s jurisdiction ends at the Canadian border, LeBlanc told The Daily that she believes organizing against Trump in Montreal is still of the utmost importance.
“When a far-right extremist gets elected into a position of power and given a huge national platform, and in Trump’s case, a global platform […] this agenda and this rhetoric is being increasingly normalized.”
It has only been a little more than two weeks since Donald Trump’s inauguration, but what the Trump administration has done during that time and the resulting impact has been overwhelming to many.
On Friday January 27, Trump signed an executive order that banned U.S. entry for citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries: Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and Yemen. The order also suspended the U.S. refugee program for four months, as well as indefinitely suspended the admission of Syrian refugees.
“You can say no to a wall, you can take down a wall, because nobody gets hurt with that. [Walls] block lives and kill because those mean death sentences to people, whether it’s a physical wall or it’s a signature, so an abstract wall […]. Those are all borders that we can collectively challenge, resist, and hopefully take down.”
Since the signing of the executive order, 60,000 visas have been revoked according to The Independent. This move has sparked outrage, both in the U.S. and abroad.
“We have all been saying for a very long time that the far-right is a problem, and now I believe this is an opportunity to take that discussion into the mainstream. This is not just about Trump, this is about a rhetoric and policies that are intrinsically violent and oppressive, that are being normalized and that are being sort of state-sanctioned, and even our government isn’t taken a firm stance [against that],” LeBlanc continued.
LeBlanc noted that the systemic racism and rhetoric against marginalized people has existed for a long time, but Trump and other far-right leaders’ rhetoric is normalizing it. “Members of marginalized communities would say that this stuff has been normalized for a long time, but it is being normalized to a […] different degree now.”
When asked what she would like to see happen with regards to Resist Trump, she said she’d like to see “this become a popular mobilization in opposition of the far right, and what I probably hope even more so is to sort of bring some of the ideas of the network in opposition to the far right and critical of capitalism and stuff like that I hope that we can bring more of those ideas into the mainstream.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Speakers at vigil for Quebec City attack highlight inclusivity, tolerance
On Monday, January 30, thousands of people gathered outside the Parc metro station for a vigil in solidarity with Muslim people in Quebec. The vigil was organized in direct response to the terror attack which had occurred at the Islamic Cultural Center of Quebec City the previous day, in which six men praying in the mosque were killed.
A variety of speakers addressed the crowd, both in English and French. Many had come with signs and candles, and a large group of people gathered on top of a small snow hill stood with a sign that said “Make Racists Afraid Again.” Others walked around with their own signs, such as one that said “I’m Muslim, I’m Quebecoise, I’m Human Too #UnitedForPeace.”
Vigil speeches touched primarily on inclusivity. One speaker, who did not provide their name, began by saying, “I truly did not expect this. I thought half this crowd would be Muslim […] but that’s not the case.”
They then highlighted the need for unity and solidarity, a common theme throughout the night.
“We are one people, and when one of us are hurt in society, all of us get hurt. And that’s why we are coming together today, all of us together, […] to say that an attack against one of us is an attack against all of us,” they said. This was met with loud cheers from the crowd.
They emphasized that everyone has a part to play in fighting against racism and Islamophobia, and highlighted the need to make Muslims and other marginalized groups feel included, in the face of events that threaten their communities.
“We are one people, and when one of us are hurt in society, all of us get hurt.”
“We must call for the positive contributions of Muslims and minorities in our society to be celebrated and recognized, and it is only then that we will have positive discourse and that we will move away from the types of problems we are seeing today,” they said.
One speaker, Abdul, took the time to recognize everyone in the crowd.
“To those who lost someone dear to them, Assalamu Alaikum,” he began in French. “To those who this day are between life and death, Assalamu Alaikum. To those Muslims present here today despite the cold and the fear, Assalamu Alaikum. To all our fellow citizens, who took time out of their days to gather with us, Assalamu Alaikum. To those elected officials of Quebec present here, Assalamu Alaikum.”
“We must call for the positive contributions of Muslims and minorities in our society to be celebrated and recognized.”
“Dear brothers, sisters, friends, and comrades, we are gathered here today during difficult times, and our message is clear,” he said in French. “We are gathered to remind terrorists that you will never divide us […] to remind those who would profit from our fears, from our worries, those who would condone violence against Muslims, in our places of worship, you will never divide us.”
“Dear brothers, sisters, friends, and comrades, Quebecers have congregated today to show that they are united against adversity,” he continued. “They’ve come together in Chicoutimi, Sherbrooke, Trois-Rivieres, to make clear we condemn violence and hate. Quebecers here in Montreal have come out to remind us that our battle is one to co-exist. […] Despite our differences, the ideology that will unite us, the doctrine that we live by without hesitation will be one of peace, justice, equality, and liberty.”
Similarly, another speaker, who identified herself as a “an anti-racist, feminist, queer, South-Asian Muslim woman,” highlighted the importance of Muslim and other marginalized communities’ voices.
“I acknowledge […] the greed and injustice that this land experiences and witnesses on a daily basis, including ongoing systemic oppression against Indigenous and black nations, against migrant or racialized communities, including Muslim communities, and again, queer, trans, women identifying people who are part of these communities.”
I want to say that this injustice stops here and now,” she continued. “That systems based on oppression, power and privilege, leading to the tragedy that we are trying to grapple with today must end now, it must.”
“I also know that so many of us have been saying this for far too long, including protesting state sanctioned white supremacy and xenophobia, like the racist and misogynist unreasonable Accommodation Commission and the so-called Charter of Values,” she went on to say, again receiving loud cheers from the audience.
The speaker then invited everyone to “take a moment to reflect on our humanity and to keep holding each other in all of our complexities, lived realities and our identities, to keep holding each other as community, to keep holding each other in space, in words, in art, in conversation, in breath, with deep love, care, and compassion.”
“To my family, to my friends, to communities who are living in fear and sadness, let us breathe in resilience and let us breathe out resilience. We will make it through, even through the haze of our tears, in solidarity in our fight for social justice and liberation,” she concluded.
This particular speaker seemed to resonate deeply with the crowd. In an interview with The Daily, one attendee, Kasha, noted that this speech was most memorable for her.
“I also know that so many of us have been saying this for far too long, including protesting state sanctioned white supremacy and xenophobia, like the racist and misogynist unreasonable Accommodation Commission and the so-called Charter of Values.”
What stood out about her speech simply was that I think she touched upon all marginalized populations and all marginalized communities and […] set a message and a precedence of inclusiveness. So I think that whoever you are, wherever you’re coming from, if you’re here, you felt that you were part of this communal energy,” she said.”
Other attendees also highlighted the sense of solidarity at the vigil.
When asked how she felt about the event, one attendee, Manaima, said, “I think it’s really sad […] not just for us [Muslims]. It’s not just for Muslim people because everybody’s going to be sad and everybody’s going to be affected by it. I don’t know how to explain it but it’s very sad for me.”
After the speeches ended, several hundred attendees remained in the square chanting slogans such as “Musulmans, bienvenue [Muslims welcome]!” for at least another half hour.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill launches institutionalized Black History Month
On Wednesday February 1, McGill’s Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) Office hosted the opening ceremony of the first institutionalized Black History Month at McGill. The ceremony, held in the Thomson House Ballroom, included numerous speakers and performances, as well as a panel discussion concerning the issue of Black erasure.
Shanice Yarde, one of the organizers, spoke about the purpose of the event and the message of McGill’s celebration of Black History Month.
“I’m really excited to create space for […] more diverse voices. Our theme is Black excellence, so we’re really going to be celebrating that and all of its diversity,” she said.
She went on to underscore the idea that Black history does not only belong to the month of February: it is a permanent reality.
“I’m really excited to create space for […] more diverse voices. Our theme is Black excellence, so we’re really going to be celebrating that and all of its diversity.”
The panel discussion was the main focus of the evening. The panelists included Rachel Zellars, a PhD candidate with our Department of Integrated Studies in Education, Dorothy Williams, a historian and writer who specializes in Black Canadian history, Uchenna Edeh, a member of the
Black community in Montreal, and Kapois Lamort, a historian, writer, and CEO and founder of Production Noire.
Throughout the discussion, audience members asked questions and shared their own experiences.
The discussion was moderated by Nènè Konaté, an organizer of Black Studies at Concordia, who began with a series of questions on the subject of erasure.
“What do we select to remember?” she asked. “What do we select to forget? Who gets erased in the process? And who gets to create history and who is featured in history?”
Lamort began the discussion by talking about his book.
“What do we select to remember? What do we select to forget? Who gets erased in the process? And who gets to create history and who is featured in history?”
“My work is called Les Boss du Quebec. It’s the first book about Hip Hop history in Quebec […] a history that goes back to the end of the 1970s,” he said. “[The book] is not only about hip hop and rap, but it’s also about the history of the Black youth [in Quebec].”
Lamort emphasized the fact that his book is the only work of its kind, demonstrating the lack of information available and the reality of erasure.
Williams continued on this theme of lack of information by discussing her own work, which is also unique in its subject matter.
“I’ve written the only books that exist right now on the chronology of the Black history in Montreal; […] I go back to the early days of slavery,” said Williams. “For many people at the time the book was written, it was quite a shock to find out that […] we did have slavery in Montreal.”
“Slavery ended in 1834 [in Quebec],” she continued. In 1841 came “the publication of a book by Francois Garneau. [He] is considered the father of Quebec history […]. Do you know what he said in his book? Slavery never existed in Quebec.”
Williams explained that Garneau continued to repeat this assertion through three editions of the book. His son corrected it after Garneau’s death, but, “it was too late. The myth had been perpetuated. The narrative was set because Quebecers were told that history never existed. The erasure was complete.”
“I’ve written the only books that exist right now on the chronology of the Black history in Montreal; […] I go back to the early days of slavery. For many people at the time the book was written, it was quite a shock to find out that […] we did have slavery in Montreal.”
She also explained why she has focused on Black history.
“I’ve always written out of the need to speak about me being here. It kind of goes back […] to an experience I had in high school,” she said. “One day in history class I asked my history teacher ‘How come you didn’t teach about slavery?’ And his response to me, in front of the class, was ‘You don’t have a history.’”
“People ask me when they read my first book […] ‘how come there’s more footnotes than there is text?’” Williams continued. “And I say, ‘Because I wanted to prove that I had a history.’”
Williams further spoke about how she always remembered her identity as a Black Canadian woman. In contrast, Edeh spoke about his personal experience as a young child struggling with questions of identity.
“I grew up with a nagging question in my mind as a young boy, that is just, ‘Who am I?’”
“To this day I’m still asked, ‘Where are you from?’ I’m born in this city but I’m still asked ‘Where are you from?’ And so there’s always a sense of not being or not knowing exactly where you stand. The danger of that erasure, when our history is erased on the outside, and you don’t have a strong sense of who you are, or a strong sense of self, it leads to that void and […] something has to fill that void for you to identify with. So it could be something very positive. But as we know it can also be filled with something negative.”
“I’ve always written out of the need to speak about me being here. It kind of goes back […] to an experience I had in high school. One day in history class I asked my history teacher ‘How come you didn’t teach about slavery?’ And his response to me, in front of the class, was ‘You don’t have a history.’”
But he explained that becoming aware of his own history and identity has given him confidence.
“My name is Uchenna Edeh, it’s a Nigerian name, an Igbo name,” he said. “When I was very young and [people] couldn’t pronounce my name I would let them call me a nickname. But when you have a sense of who you are and a sense of history it was like, ‘No, my name is Uchenna.’ […] And if [someone said] ‘Oh I can’t pronounce Uchenna, that’s too hard,’ I’m like, ‘That’s ok. You’ll learn.’”
Zellars also touched on the issue of erasure and how it affects young Black people struggling to understand themselves.
“My son’s experience living on the Plateau in the French system took my research in a radically different direction. When he was in kindergarten and then it became very apparent in first grade and second grade, he started […] manifesting symptoms of self-hatred. It really reared ahead when he was about seven-and-a-half years old and he started talking about killing himself,” she said.
“What I discovered very quickly was it came from the pressures in many different capacities of being the only Black child in a Plateau school in a French system that just did not see him or even have space to acknowledge this kind of Black child,” Zellars explained. “I ended up taking my children out of school for a year.”
“My name is Uchenna Edeh, it’s a Nigerian name, an Igbo name. When I was very young and [people] couldn’t pronounce my name I would let them call me a nickname. But when you have a sense of who you are and a sense of history it was like, ‘No, my name is Uchenna.’ […] And if [someone said] ‘Oh I can’t pronounce Uchenna, that’s too hard,’ I’m like, ‘That’s ok. You’ll learn.’”
Following along the same theme, Williams touched on the way that Blackness is constantly othered. She noted that currently Canadian schools follow the Ministry of Education’s curriculum, but that teachers can bring other resources into the classroom. Such resources include the teaching kit that she has developed to help schools integrate Black Canadian history into the curriculum.
She stressed the importance of normalizing Black experience in order to canonize the existence of Black Canadians.
“One of the ways we’re trying to inculcate the kit, to help teachers to teach it, is to take it away from the exotic […]. We’re telling the stories of the Black coureurs de bois, the fur traders. We’re saying you don’t have to make a special class to talk about Black coureurs de bois. When you’re talking about the coureurs de bois you can mention that there were Blacks […] You can make the conversation about otherness without it being onerous. It then becomes part of the canon because it becomes normalized.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Demonstrators speak out against Islamophobia in the U.S. and Canada
On Monday January 30, roughly fifty protesters gathered outside the United States Consulate at St. Alexandre and René Lévesque. Carrying signs reading “Immigrants Welcome” and “Open the Borders,” and chanting slogans condemning fascism and Islamophobia, the protesters blocked the doors of the building for over an hour.
Meanwhile, more than a dozen police cars had gathered on surrounding streets, with officers surrounding the protesters, and observing them closely. Several news crews were also present on the scene, and, in addition to the surveillance cameras adorning the building, an unseen staff member installed a portable camera in a window overlooking the consulate doors. Noticing the new camera, several protesters waved or raised middle fingers in its direction.
Carrying signs reading “Immigrants Welcome” and “Open the Borders,” and chanting slogans condemning fascism and Islamophobia, the protesters blocked the doors of the building for over an hour.
The demonstration was a direct response to the executive order signed on January 27 by U.S. President Donald Trump, which banned people from seven Muslim-majority countries – Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen – from entering the U.S.. The order also bans Syrian refugees from entering the country indefinitely.
In the following days, the U.S. government faced criticism from across the political spectrum and around the world. Hundreds of people with valid visas found themselves detained at U.S. airports and sometimes denied access to legal counsel, while angry crowds protested outside. On February 3, a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order blocking the implementation of the executive order on the grounds that it constitutes harmful and unlawful discrimination against Muslim people, according to the BBC. At the time of publication, however, it is unclear how the restraining order will be implemented, or how long it will last.
The demonstration was a direct response to the executive order signed on January 27 by U.S. President Donald Trump, which banned people from seven Muslim-majority countries.”
Khosro Berahmandi, who is personally affected by the executive order and could not travel to the U.S., told The Daily he had come to the consulate “to raise our voice against what’s happening right now in the world.”
“Every nation […] has a fear of others,” he said, “and we’re all responsible for not allowing or promoting this fear. Canada as well has practiced this sort of approach to promote fear, and [some] people from Canada, at the same time, they raise their voice against that.”
Protest organizer Bill Van Driel also highlighted Canada’s homegrown Islamophobia.
“The demo today is in response to Trump’s ‘Muslim ban,’” Van Driel told The Daily, “but we’re also trying to talk about the ways that Canada is complicit in this. […] So opening the borders in one of our core demands, but we’re also demanding that Canada abandon the ‘Safe Third Country’ agreement with the United States.”
“We’re all responsible for not allowing or promoting this fear. Canada as well has practiced this sort of approach to promote fear, and [some] people from Canada, at the same time, they raise their voice against that.”
This agreement, signed in 2004, stipulates that individuals seeking refugee status must make a claim for protection in the first country – either the U.S. or Canada – in which they land. As such, many advocacy groups have expressed concern that a Syrian refugee affected by the executive order could conceivably be turned away from seeking asylum in Canada, on the grounds that the U.S. constitutes a ‘safe country.’
“I don’t think Canada is that different from the U.S.,” said Van Driel. “Both were founded on land theft and genocide against Indigenous nations, and particularly after yesterday’s shootings [in Quebec City], obviously we’re all thinking about Islamophobia. A lot of the mainstream discourse seems to be focusing on Trump as the cause of it, […] but at the same time, the ‘reasonable accommodation’ debate [in Quebec] is going back thirty years at this point. […] This isn’t new, and it’s not particular to America.”
After roughly an hour and a half, the protesters dispersed peacefully. The consulate had remained open throughout, unlike its Toronto counterpart, which had closed in anticipation of protests.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
