The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Who benefits from ancillary fee increases? “The administration.”
On Thursday March 23, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council gathered for its penultimate meeting of this academic year. Council heard one notice of motion regarding amendments to the internal regulations of finance, two presentations (one of which was an update from VP University Affairs Erin Sobat on Memorandum of Agreement negotiations), and four motions brought forward by councillors.
The motions included a “NO” endorsement for the referendum on an increase to the Athletics and Recreation ancillary fee, a motion regarding continued SSMU participation in the Association for a Voice in Education in Quebec (AVEQ), a motion regarding revisions to the Equity Policy, and a motion regarding undergraduate senatorial elections, all of which passed. Council also heard reports from committees and executives.
A motion was presented to Council which would endorse a “NO” vote in the upcoming referendum question regarding an Athletics and Recreation ancillary fee increase.
Earlier in March, a Winter 2017 SSMU General Assembly (GA) motion was presented which, if enacted, would have mandated SSMU to reject referendum questions seeking to raise ancillary fees until McGill acknowledged students’ concerns with these fees. Moreover, the motion demanded that McGill provide yearly financial reports to SSMU executives about the allocation of ancillary fees, and that a moratorium be imposed on increasing overhead charges.
Simply put, overhead charges are incurred when the University bills student-fee-funded units for central administrative services, which are automatically provided through the operating budget.
Overhead charges were vehemently contested during the 2012 Quebec student protests, and yet despite years of student advocacy, little has been done to curb them at McGill.
Although it initially passed at the GA, the motion concerning the Athletics ancillary fee was invalidated when SSMU learned of a pre-existing contract with the administration, negating their ability to enact such a motion.
At Thursday’s council meeting, movers of the motion to endorse a “NO” vote said that “recent Athletics and Recreation budget numbers indicate that it is within the university’s financial capacity to not only reduce overhead charges, but to increase funding transfers from the central operating budget to fee funded units.” They felt that a “NO” vote would send a clear message to the administration that students were no longer comfortable with overhead charges.
“[The administration] has set up this unsustainable budgetary model where every few years, their costs are increasing, and every few years, they come back to us for [a fee] increase, and they say ‘Don’t you care about these services? Give us an increase,’ and they have no incentive to change their budgetary model around the overhead charges,” said Sobat, in defense of the motion.
“[The administration] has set up this unsustainable budgetary model where every few years, their costs are increasing, and every few years, they come back to us for [a fee] increase.”
“They have a blank slate, or a free pass basically, to keep increasing [overhead charges and ancillary fees] because we’ve never rejected that kind of increase,” he continued. “It’s in the interest of showing the administration that as a collective student body, we are not in support of this funding model, and want to see a reinvestment – not even a reinvestment – but a reduction of those overhead charges, so that the money that we pay to Athletics actually goes in fact to Athletics and not back to the central administration to redistribute elsewhere.”
However, Athletics Representative Yue Jiao raised concerns with the motion.
“Why is it the understanding that having a ‘NO’ vote will result in the [administration] understanding that these overhead charges are too much?” she said. “The reality is that a ‘NO’ vote is actually going to cause Athletics and Recreation to put themselves in a situation where they have to re-evaluate their budget and that will affect the services that are being provided to students.”
“Especially if a ‘NO’ vote is associated with a strong message over overhead charges,” Sobat responded, “it is sending a message to the University that actually their financial practices do need to change. We’ve seen from the Athletics budget that they at times have been able to reduce those overhead charges or increase the transfers of money that they’re giving back to Athletics for particular initiatives.”
“[A “NO” vote] shows that students want to see that kind of funding model, and it is not the same thing as us just wanting to cut services,” he added. “This is a better message than us just saying, ‘No, we just don’t want to increase the fees.’”
“[A “NO” vote] shows that students want to see that kind of funding model, and it is not the same thing as us just wanting to cut services. […] This is a better message than us just saying, ‘No, we just don’t want to increase the fees.’”
A number of councillors agreed with Sobat. Science Representative Caitlin Mehrotra said that the administration’s demand for fee increases does “kind of sound like a threat,” and Senate Caucus Representative William Cleveland agreed that the administration had to be shown that “this is not acceptable.”
In concluding the debate, Jiao asked Sobat “Who do you think would benefit from the fee increase?” Sobat simply answered, “the administration.” The motion endorsing a “NO” vote passed with 13 in favor, four against, and five abstaining.
Council approved a motion regarding revisions to SSMU’s Equity Policy, which had been tabled since February.
“[The motion] was primarily a restructuring of the policy to make it more clear and accessible to people trying to access it, as well honestly to interpret it for the Equity Commissioners,” explained Sobat. “The next step once it’s approved will be to develop some new communication tools around it: we’d like to have to flow chart to clearly outline the process, and some resources to make it as accessible as possible because we don’t want people to dive into this document as a first step if they’re looking for recourse in SSMU.”
Sobat explained that the motion also outlined the scope and jurisdiction of the Equity Policy, clarifying plans when issues outside of SSMU in other faculty associations arise, and how to refer said issues to other faculty equity committees. The motion passed unanimously.
Council also approved a motion regarding SSMU participation in AVEQ. Last year in referendum, the student body rejected an offer to join AVEQ, but SSMU nonetheless serves as an official observer to the student federation. SSMU executives have argued that joining a student federation would greatly influence the Society’s ability to influence provincial and federal politics at a higher level.
Despite the student body voting “NO” to joining AVEQ, more students voted to abstain in the referendum than voted for or against, with some positing a “lack of awareness of the role of student federations in general and of the AVEQ in particular.”
The motion approved at Thursday’s council will allow SSMU to remain an observer at AVEQ until the end of 2017, and allow SSMU delegates to continue attending AVEQ member assemblies. The motion also stipulated that SSMU will continue to “educate its members regarding the existence and role of AVEQ,” and bring another referendum question regarding affiliation to AVEQ to Council for consideration in the Fall 2017 semester.
The motion passed with 14 in favour, six against, and three abstaining.
In November, Council allowed undergraduate Engineering senatorial elections to be organized by the Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS) rather than by Elections SSMU. At the time, it was argued that holding senatorial elections alongside the election of EUS executives would increase voter turnout and interest in Senator positions, without overburdening the EUS.
“[The motion] was primarily a restructuring of the policy to make it more clear and accessible to people trying to access it, as well honestly to interpret it for the Equity Commissioners.”
During the Winter 2017 senatorial elections, this was expanded to all faculty associations. Senate Caucus Representative Joshua Chin presented a motion to standardize this practice, officially amending both the Internal Regulations of Representation and Advocacy, and the Internal Regulations of Elections and Referenda.
The motion passed with no debate, 22 in favor, and one abstention.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Agreement with McGill means fee increases must go to referendum
Executives of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) were recently informed that SSMU is contractually bound to put any ancillary fee increases requested by the University to referendum. Under the provincial act governing the accreditation of student associations, SSMU’s Legislative Council would ordinarily have the power to debate and reject such fee increases; this newly-discovered contract with McGill negates that power.
Although this contract has been in effect since 2010, the current SSMU executive team only became aware of it in the context of a motion against ancillary fee increases which passed at SSMU’s most recent General Assembly (GA). Following the passing of this motion, which had been moved by VP University Affairs Erin Sobat, the administration apparently informed SSMU that the pre-existing contract effectively rendered it nonviable.
McGill undergraduates pay six different ancillary fees to the University. These fees finance a range of services and programmes, from the Office for Students with Disabilities to McGill’s Athletics facilities. Ancillary fees are non-opt-outable, and they are initiated and governed by student referendums.
These fees are automatically adjusted to reflect inflation, but every so often, McGill requests a significant increase. Sobat sat down with The Daily to explain why this happens.
“The way [McGill has] set up most of these units – in particular ones like Student Services or Athletics – is to be very reliant on student fee funding,” he explained, “and there are increases to their costs for salaries, for inflation, for maintenance of their facilities and buildings over time, and so as a way to address those increased costs, [administrators], on a pretty regular cycle, come back to students requesting an increase.”
“The way [McGill has] set up most of these units – in particular ones like Student Services or Athletics – is to be very reliant on student fee funding.”
According to Sobat, this pattern of financing is unsustainable, hence his attempt to freeze increases on the Athletics ancillary fee through the aforementioned GA motion. He told The Daily that this reliance on student fees to run certain services is allowed to occur because the services in question are considered non-essential.
“In something like Athletics or student services we have obviously been advocating for quite a while that the University stop charging overhead fees […] to those units,” Sobat continued. “For example, in the case of Student Services in the Brown Building, that has been deemed not central to […] the purpose of the University and so the central operating budget doesn’t pay for maintenance of the Brown Building – that comes out of the student services budget.”
In 2010, SSMU’s executive team signed a contract with McGill which stipulates that whenever the University requests an ancillary fee increase, SSMU must send that increase directly to a referendum. SSMU Council, which is composed of representatives from every McGill faculty and is intended to act as the Society’s main legislative body, has no opportunity to debate and potentially reject the requested increase.
In an email to The Daily, Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens explained his view of this contract. When asked if, in his opinion, it limits student democracy at McGill to a damaging degree, he responded emphatically in the negative.
“In something like Athletics or student services we have obviously been advocating for quite a while that the University stop charging overhead fees […] to those units.”
“We believe this Agreement actually strengthens ‘robust student democracy’ because it gives students – all students, not just a small group – the power to accept or reject a proposed fee increase,” Dyens replied. “That’s direct democracy.”
Another issue that has caused concern is the fact that this contract has no end date, meaning that it could theoretically remain in effect indefinitely. It’s unclear why this is the case, but Sobat explained that he’s committed to doing whatever he can to challenge the contract.
“I think that’s something certainly that should be looked at,” he said, “and obviously the ideal time would be in the context of the current Memorandum of Agreement [MoA] negotiations […] I hope that the incoming executives will be interested in and concerned about. I’m going to do more research both in a legal sense [ and] in the political sense […] and perhaps also working with other associations through a provincial student federation.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Plans revealed for extensive renovation of Leacock terrace
On Wednesday March 22, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council assembled for one of its final meetings of the academic year. Council voted on a motion to amend the AUS Equity Policy, appointed replacements for former Arts Representative Igor Sadikov and former VP Finance Deepak Punjabi, and discussed new information concerning possible renovations to the Leacock terrace.
Before giving her routine executive report, AUS President Becky Goldberg made a statement concerning Punjabi’s resignation, which occurred on March 20.
“There’s a lot of speculation spinning around about why Deepak resigned,” she said. “Just to clarify, he found a job off campus, that’s the reason. […] It shouldn’t necessarily be encouraged to find a job part way through another job, but I’m glad that he’s doing what he needs to do.”
“Just to clarify, he found a job off campus, that’s the reason. […] It shouldn’t necessarily be encouraged to find a job part way through another job, but I’m glad that he’s doing what he needs to do.”
This announcement followed the passing of a motion to appoint the Arts Financial Management Committee (FMC) Representative Noah Lew to the position of acting VP Finance. Weeks earlier, Lew had been elected VP Finance for the 2017-2018 academic year.
A motion to amend the Equity Policy bylaws was moved by Amanda Hills of the Political Science Students’ Association, Nick Milum from the International Development Studies Students’ Association, and Equity Commissioners Jad El Tal and Leah Damo. The proposed amendment stipulated that AUS executives must undergo training on consent, responding to disclosures of violence, and being an active bystander.
“We feel like it’s really important that student executives are really prepared to handle the situations that come their way,” noted Hills. “Especially because a lot of the events we run have alcohol and that really affects the nature of consent.”
The motion passed unanimously, and without debate.
In his executive report, VP Academic Erik Partridge revealed the Faculty of Arts Committee’s plan to renovate the Leacock terrace to include an amphitheater. The project would involve a complete re-sloping of the area in order to incorporate green space and a new outdoor gathering place for students.
“This is somewhat problematic,” Partridge said, “because it would be an amphitheater probably without a roof, and I don’t know how many of you […] want to stay outside in the middle of the winter.”
“We feel like it’s really important that student executives are really prepared to handle the situations that come their way. Especially because a lot of the events we run have alcohol and that really affects the nature of consent.”
This prompted a question regarding whether or not the administration had considered using the money to instead create an indoor study space which would be fully accessible year-round.
“We suggested that they put some sort of potential ceiling over it,” he responded, “which they’re open to exploring. It would definitely not be heated in the winter.”
It was made clear that the administration had already gone far ahead with this project and it should soon be implemented despite these critiques.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council seeks to increase students’ political engagement
On Monday March 20, the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS) Council met for its eighth council meeting of the 2016-2017 academic year, and its second General Meeting (GM). At Council, a motion was approved to create a special referendum regarding the graduate innovation culture fund, councillors were appointed to the appointments board by a lottery system, and a motion was brought from the floor to endorse a letter to McGill requesting that the Legal Information Clinic at McGill (LICM)’s referendum question be blocked.
At the General Meeting, PGSS members heard announcements, as well as reports from each of the executives. They also discussed ways to increase engagement at PGSS Council meetings in the future. Quorum was lost roughly half way through the GM, and as a result, new business was tabled until the next meeting.
From March 20 to 26, the LICM is hosting a referendum which asks graduate students, “Do you agree to increase the non-opt-outable Legal Information Clinic at McGill association fee paid by all graduate students on the downtown campus, excluding post-docs, from $2.00 per student per semester (excluding summer) to $4.50 per student per semester (excluding summer), starting in Fall 2017?”
During the Council meeting, a motion was brought from the floor by PGSS Chief Returning Officer (CRO) Manmeet Rai. The motion initially sought to block the LICM referendum, but according to PGSS Council bylaws, this would have been illegal. In view of this, it became a motion to endorse a letter to McGill requesting that the referendum be blocked, regardless of the result.
The motion brought by Rai stated that the LICM presented the referendum question before PGSS Council at its January 2017 meeting, and it passed. However, “the next day certain discrepancies were found in the information provided by the LICM representatives at the Council.”
It further alleged that the LICM lacks financial transparency and has adopted “skewed” procedures in running the referendum, and called for a PGSS representative to be placed on the LICM’s board to report on the organization’s workings and suggest improvements.
It further alleged that the LICM lacks financial transparency and has adopted “skewed” procedures in running the referendum.
At one point, a student from the Computer Science Graduate Society asked for more details regarding the procedural discrepancies. In response, Rai said that the LICM had provided a provision for a preamble to be added before the voting period begins.
According to Rai, the LICM claimed the preamble would only add factual information, but “what is happening with this factual information in technicality, [is] if a ‘No’ Committee goes out and garners a lot of support, and you add new information which is going to show up on the ballot, it takes away that element of all your campaigning that you’ve done.”
“This is something which is absolutely rigged and should not be allowed, and this is not how referendums take place,” Rai said.
Moreover, Rai said the LICM has allowed anyone to join the ‘Yes’ committee, but students who would like to be part of the ‘No’ committee would have to go through a nomination process. He added that this process is unclear.
Rai also claimed that on a ballot, LICM is allowed to provide a link to the statement of the ‘Yes’ Committee or the ‘No’ Committee. However, Rai claimed that the link LICM provided leads directly to LICM’s website.
The motion also noted a number of financial concerns with regards to LICM, and questioned whether a fee raise from $2.00 to $4.50 was necessary.
“This is something which is absolutely rigged and should not be allowed, and this is not how referendums take place.”
One student, Matthew, asked the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of LICM to address the concerns brought up by Rai.
Colby Briggs, CEO of LICM, claimed that there is no preamble on the ballot, as LICM is using an omni-box system which provides a link to a version of a candidate system, something which is typically done in PGSS elections.
In addressing the claim that a nominations process is required only for students wishing to join the ‘No’ Committee, Briggs said that “LICM obviously wants the fee levy to pass, so it’s not really logical to have a distinct nomination process, but if they did have a nomination process, it would be a matter of ‘Hey, CRO, I would like to be on the ‘Yes’ committee.’”
The nomination process for the ‘No’ committee would be the same. Briggs added that no student emailed him saying they would like to form a ‘No’ Committee.
In response, Rai said “I don’t see any statement out there which says that if you are applying [to be part of] a ‘No’ Committee, it will only be, ‘Hey, CRO, put me on the ‘No’ committee.’”
He added that, according to the LICM’s procedures, the LICM Yes Referendum Committee will be exempt from nomination procedure.
“In practice, I’m not sure it really matters if there is a nomination process or not,” Briggs responded. “The Yes Committee is automatically the Legal Information Clinic because the Legal Information Clinic is holding a referendum to increase the fee.”
“LICM obviously wants the fee levy to pass, so it’s not really logical to have a distinct nomination process, but if they did have a nomination process, it would be a matter of ‘Hey, CRO, I would like to be on the ‘Yes’ committee.’”
Mina Anadolu, PGSS Internal Affairs Officer, also pointed out that in an email sent out by Elections LICM on February 27, LICM called for the formation of yes or no committees.
However, the motion was then tabled, as the Council meeting had reached its time limit.
At the end of the General Meeting, PGSS Secretary-General Victor Frankel asked PGSS members how they thought engagement could be improved.
In response, Andrew Dixon, PGSS Health Commissioner, suggested that awards for PGSAs could increase engagement at Council. Jacob Lavigne, PGSS External Affairs Officer, said that people might feel disengaged because they may have a lack of understanding of many of the issues discussed at Council, and thus suggested further training at the beginning of the year.
In response to these suggestions, Anadolu announced that awards for PGSAs are in the works, as is an increase in orientation sessions and training.
Finally, a student named Matthew from the Graduate Students’ Association for Neuroscience said, “One of the things that I’ve noticed this year on Council is that there’s really not a lot of motions to discuss. When we get to Council we’re really just hearing reports, there’s no actual discussion going on. I don’t know if that’s because nobody knows how to actually write a motion [but] I think a workshop at the start of the year on how to write a motion, how to present it to Council, and how to actually make a difference here would be very interesting.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
