The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Concerns raised over the potential effectiveness of such a policy
Content warning: sexual assault, domestic abuse
The recent resignations of two Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) executives – former President Ben Ger and former VP External David Aird – over allegations of gendered violence have sparked intense criticism of SSMU’s nominal commitment to transparency and accountability. Moreover, many are calling for the Society to adopt a sexual assault policy (SAP) which would apply to its Executive Committee.
While the University did recently adopt its own Sexual Violence Policy (SVP), which applies to all students registered at McGill, a SSMU SAP would in theory give undergraduates at the University more recourse in holding their elected officials accountable.
The SVP cannot be used to suspend or remove SSMU executives from their positions. This means that if any future executive were to be accused of sexual assault, SSMU members would have to wait for the University to take action against that executive as an individual – something McGill has historically been reluctant to do.
A SSMU SAP, or more administration involvement?
Nevertheless, many students have argued that it should be McGill’s administration, rather than SSMU, which takes a larger role in countering sexual violence on campus.
In a letter published on March 2, 2017 in The McGill Daily, 18 SSMU representatives, all of whom sit on the Society’s Legislative Council, addressed McGill’s administration. The letter recognized the “insufficiency of the SSMU executive team in the handling of their response,” but felt that this didn’t excuse the Administration’s silence on the matter.
“The problem of sexual violence is not limited to the SSMU,” reads the letter. “It affects everyone on campus, especially those survivors that have come forth. Principal Fortier, the administration is accountable to every one of its students and shoulders the burden of the responsibility to take action. The silence from the Administration throughout this process is alarming.”
The letter called on the administration to collaborate with SSMU to “to emphasize section 8 of the sexual violence policy and push the active working group to hold workshops and presentations concerning sexual violence at McGill residences and campus as a whole for the remainder of the semester.”
The letter also called on the administration to follow and adopt the CDN’s demands, and “to take direct measures to ensure the continued safety of students and survivors on and around campus.” Measures listed included timely disclosures, safety planning, section changes. Most importantly the letter called for “screening of [SSMU] executives.” Nowhere in the letter is there a call for SSMU to adopt its own SAP to counter its own shortcomings.
Hence, a large part of the debate over a SSMU SAP revolves around how much independence SSMU and its members should have in regulating its own Executive Committee, and when the University’s administration should step in.
The Executive Committee talks a SSMU-specific SAP
VP Student Life Elaine Patterson, who has taken on the role of SSMU spokesperson following Ger’s resignation, told The Daily in an email that there “have been conversations amongst the SSMU executives regarding a policy and a set of protocols that can be put in place in order to create a structure to better manage reports of disclosure of sexual harassment to an exec.”
“In terms of first steps,” she added, “we hope to organize a time for the current executives and the [newly elected SSMU] executives to attend a workshop on reports of disclosure offered by Consent McGill. Additionally, [VP University Affairs] Erin Sobat is in touch with representatives from the Community Disclosure Network (CDN) to ensure consultation while this policy and these protocols are in development.”
In a statement to The Daily, Sobat spoke about the process of creating such a policy. “By their request I am working […] to help meet the requests in [the CDN’s] statement, re: sexual violence in general not just harassment,” he explained. “However this is really […] labour of policy/protocol development based on consultation and outreach to different groups and oversight from our governance bodies.”
“We are looking into the best ways to facilitate sensitive consultation and dialogue on moving forward, through CDN and staff resources,” he added. “We recognize that people do not necessarily feel comfortable reaching out to the executive right now and that there need to be multiple avenues for involvement and input.”
“Well intentioned but dangerously half-baked”
While many on campus have called for such a policy, some students feel that this simply isn’t enough.
Silence is Violence (SiV), a survivor-led collective of community members at McGill which “advocate for institutional accountability and tackle rape culture on campus” released a statement last Thursday detailing their thoughts on a hypothetical SSMU SAP.
While the collective expressed outrage at Ger and Aird’s behaviour, and understood the calls to action, they expressed concerns that calls for a SSMU-specific SAP are “short-sighted, narrow and lack adequate context.”
“Since the adoption of SVP last winter, and, indeed, in the past few years when a SVP has been under development at McGill, [the] McGill Administration has constantly used the SVP to make a show of its supposed commitment to responding to sexual violence – and shut down any criticism of its shortcomings in that regard,” reads the statement.
“While a policy can indeed provide structure for addressing sexual violence,” the statement continues, “calling for the creation of a policy without holistically confronting – in this case – the dynamics that encourage, sustain and tolerate abuse in activist communities is a cheap way out of assuming liability for past incidents and committing to their prevention in the future.”
SiV also raised concerns about whether or not this meant that clubs, faculty and departmental associations, and other groups on campus would themselves also adopt a sexual assault policy of their own.
“How much time and resources would that take?” SiV wrote. “How many sexual assault policies does this institution need?” SiV stated that, instead, they felt McGill would “benefit more from a campus-wide initiative to use already existing structures to extend the SVP to all other separate legal entities at McGill.”
The collective cited the Office of the Dean of Students signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Management Undergraduate Society to extend the Code of Students’ Conduct and a variety of other forms of oversights to Carnival, an event which involved heavy drinking. “Participants would hence be subject to this Code in case they cross the line,” the statement reads.
Disagreements between the CDN and SiV
In an email to The Daily, the CDN confirmed that the Network was working with SSMU in the hopes of creating a stand alone “Gendered and Sexualized Violence Policy,” or a GSVP.
“Our goals in working with SSMU are to create a pro-survivor document that protects the SSMU community, and also to ensure that resources and outlines of procedures are made as accessible as possible to survivors without them having to disclose anything,” the CDN wrote.
“This requires a dialogue within the creation of a policy of what these processes or a recourse of action will look like,” the email continues, “and how SSMU can work with other student groups on campus to make sure that such a policy and the procedures it outlines are implemented properly.”
When asked how the Network felt about SiV’s comments on a SSMU-specific SAP, they responded that they had been in contact with SiV but didn’t share the collective’s feelings.
“We reached out to them as soon as we saw [SiV’s] statement, to inquire that they remove [CDN’s] name,” explained the Network. “As their statement outlined that the creation of a SSMU GSVP would not be useful (we think it is crucial), and that we are calling for an apology or further accountability on the part of Erin Sobat (we are not), we did not want to be perceived as sharing these concerns. They responded quickly to our communication and have since rectified their statement.”
At the time of publication, the Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS) had yet to sit down with SSMU executives to discuss the Society adopting a sexual assault policy, and hence were not comfortable speaking with The Daily about their recommendations on the subject.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Protesters shoot fireworks at police, who respond by kettling protesters
On the evening of Wednesday March 15, more than a hundred people gathered at Place Valois, despite a snowstorm, to participate in Montreal’s annual March against Police Brutality.
The march was organized as part of the International Day Against Police Brutality by the Collective Opposed to Police Brutality (COBP), an organization formed in 1995 in response to arrests following a demonstration against Human Life International (HLI). 
The theme of this year’s march was gentrification, highlighting the struggles of those marginalized by the influx of luxury businesses and households into low-income neighborhoods. As such, the protest began in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, a community currently undergoing gentrification. 
Opening remarks
In one of the opening speeches, made at Place Valois, an anonymous organizer denounced the systemic oppression which has historically been perpetrated by police forces, specifically as related to racism and colonialism.
“Year after year, we ask ourselves the same question,” said the organizer. “Who protects us from the police? […] This question arises when the suffering at the hands of the SPVM is considered acceptable by the media […] Who protects us from the police? Let us think about the [Indigenous] women […] who have disappeared, who were violated by police officers. Think of the families who are defenceless against the system, that have worked five hundred years against unending colonization […] Who protects us from the police? I ask this question every day, as we see police abuses of all kinds. […] Who protects us from the police? […] We can count only on [….] ourselves, our communities, our neighbourhoods, and our solidarity to protect ourselves.”
Police intervention
Once the introductory speeches had been delivered, the protest began. Participants marched briskly along Ontario street, moving west towards the Quartier des Spectacles. They held banners denouncing police brutality, capitalism, and racism, and shouted slogans exuberantly as they walked.
The protesters were escorted by the Service de police de la ville de Montréal (SPVM), who followed the march closely, but did not initially intervene. This continued for roughly two hours, until the march reached downtown Montreal, whereupon a small subsection of the demonstrators began smashing the windows of stores and of a nearby police car. A few fireworks were also thrown at the SPVM officers who, by this point, had begun to surround the march.
As the tension palpably increased, many protesters took this opportunity to leave the scene. Meanwhile, the remainder of the group proceeded back eastward along Ste. Catherine, closely followed by dozens of police officers in full riot gear. 
At the junction of St. Urbain and Ste. Catherine, the SPVM surrounded the now smaller march, kettling several different groups of people. Eventually, however, all of those kettled either pushed their way out or were released. No arrests were made, and no fines were imposed, although some protestersí backpacks were taken by the police as evidence. Small groups of protesters continued walking for a short period of time, but after the confrontation at St. Urbain the protest was effectively dispersed. 
Racism and police brutality
The 2016 March ended with no police interventions or arrests, unlike previous years where multiple fines were imposed.
“Last year it went really well and we were all very surprised about that,” said a participant volunteering as a medic who asked to remain anonymous when speaking to The Daily. “But […] it’s hard to tell what to expect from [the police]. I think that there’s been a lot of newer people getting involved, […] I think this march has a reputation, and I think that people […]  know and expect it to be a lot more intense than usual.”
The medic, a member of Resist Trump and the Far Right, also highlighted how marginalized populations ñ primarily Black and Indigenous people ñ are subject to disproportionate levels of police brutality.
“This march […] really matters to me because I’ve personally been a victim of police harassment and certain bad experiences with police,î they explained. ìBut I also think that […] what’s going on […] in regard to the police and the Indigenous people in Canada is […] absolutely something that needs to be talked about more. […] There is police brutality in Canada, it’s not just in the United States and people of colour are the ones [who] suffer the most from it. So I think that needs to be addressed more.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Saskia Sassen talks extraction, displacement, and de-urbanization
On March 13, a group of students and community members gathered in the McGill Faculty Club for a lecture by Saskia Sassen, a professor of sociology and the Chair of the Committee on Global Thought at Columbia University. Sassen’s lecture was titled “A Massive Loss of Habitat: Three New Migrations.” She examined the extractive and expulsive practices that have come to dominate our global financial system.
Sassen began with a discussion of land grabs. Africa is the most affected by land grabs, she said. However, land grabbing, or large-scale land acquisitions, are spreading across the globe. Sassen brought up a few examples such as Bosnia’s Saudi-run wheat plantations, Southeast Asia’s history of foreign-run biofuel extraction, and water bottling companies’ amassing of real estate worldwide.
These land grabs are destructive because they push out long-term inhabitants and quickly drain natural resources. When this happens, the affected territory becomes what Sassen calls “dead land.” This practice of pushing people out for corporate profit is creating “a massive loss of habitat,” she said, “that is generating a certain kind of migration.”
“The [Indigenous inhabitants] have knowledge [of] how to keep that land alive for millennia, for centuries,” said Sassen. “When they’re thrown out of that land [they end up] in big slums in big cities. At that point, we – the scholars, […] the researchers – have lost track of them. We see them as urban slum dwellers. We have forgotten the fact that they have knowledge about how to keep that land alive.”
This cycle tends to repeat itself, said Sassen, to ever more destructive effect: people become invisible, their practical knowledge is forgotten, their land dies, and corporations move on to new and unexploited areas.
“We see them as urban slum dwellers. We have forgotten the fact that they have knowledge about how to keep that land alive.”
Sassen also discussed the recent phenomenon of countries making land grabs abroad. While this may be construed as a form of neo-imperialism, she emphasized land grabbing in foreign countries mainly concern extraction for financial gain. This contrasts older forms of imperialism involving political or religious agendas.
“If you think of the old imperial mode of the French […] they didn’t want to just control the whole of Africa, they also wanted everyone to learn French,” she said. “It came with a superstructure.” The same was true, she continued, of the Spanish invasion of Latin America: Spain had certainly pillaged the region’s natural resources, but it had also come with a “civilizing mission” rooted in Christianity.
Today, by contrast, extraction-based concerns are far more all-consuming, and this logic is the backbone of numerous modern commodities. Google and Facebook are both extractive of information, Sassen said, and “finance is an extractive sector: [finance] sells something it does not have.”
“So is this new type of foreign owner of land in a country that is not its own,” she concluded. “It just extracts.”
The extraction and destruction of land, Sassen went on, has led to the development of a new kind of migrant: “a migrant who, when she appears at our borders […] is invisible to the eye of the law.”
“When you take the traditional subjects, the immigrant and the refugee, there are legal regimes. They might be highly imperfect, but they exist.”
“The immigrant is a strong subject. She leaves behind a place. She wants to contribute to further development […] This [new] subject is not necessarily a strong subject […] They’re being pushed out,” she said. “What throws out these migrants – plantation development, mining, the water bottlers – registers as GDP per capita growth in the countries where this is happening.”
This point, said Sassen, illustrates the ironic space within which the new migrant operates. On the one hand, their country of origin is benefitting financially from land grabbing and extraction. However, “you have to combine what is seen by the system as a positive […] with the fact that millions are expelled every year.”
Recently, there has been a profound increase in the number of unaccompanied children coming to the United States from Central America. Most of them are coming from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala.
“El Salvador and Honduras are considered among the most violent countries in the world” said Sassen. “When you ask the children ‘why, why did you [leave]?’ They always say ‘la violencia.’”
“They left because of violence but the point is that violence doesn’t fall from the sky ready-made,” Sassen continued. “Small farmers have been thrown out of their land by the development of massive plantations owned both by foreign capital and by old local elites.”
These small landowners are forced to go to the cities: “San Pedro Sula for example, in Honduras. a country reported to have the highest national murder rate in the world according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes (UNODC) in 2012.
“They left because of violence but the point is that violence doesn’t fall from the sky ready-made.”
The local economies in theses cities are struggling, and the drug trade is one of the only developing financial sectors. The parents of these migrant children often become involved due to a profound lack of opportunity, and in many cases, they end up being killed. This, said Sassen, is ‘la violencia,’
The Dinant Corporation is currently the largest landowner in Honduras. “The world bank just gave [the CEO] a prize […] he runs a very well-run plantation. He had to expel all kinds of people. So here again we enter this strange zone.” Sassen continued, “In the statistics of the country it all looks fantastic. [However] it actually rests on killing.”
Sassen implied that many people are unaware of the true cause of this destruction, and instead attribute the violence to racist preconceptions about the regions affected.
“You can’t just say ‘la violencia’ – you have to say land grabs, you have to say certain modes of economic development, you have to say the corruption of governments. […] Then you’re actually getting at some of the foundational facts.”
Recently, said Sassen, foreign buyers have been purchasing property in cities considered desirable, and developing luxury properties there.
“Atlantic Yards [in New York City] was [once] dense with all kind of activity,” she explained. “All the artists that were too poor to live in Manhattan wound up there. It was bought up by a Chinese company […] and they’re now building fourteen of these towers, luxury towers, apartment buildings. They are raising the density of the place enormously but they’re actually de-urbanizing […] You’re just eliminating mixed economies and cultures […] and replacing it with luxury apartments.”
Not only are foreign buyers building new high rises and de-urbanizing neighbourhoods, they are also buying up units in pre-existing buildings, Sassen went on. This means that a lot of urban space remains empty, becoming nothing but a symbol of foreign capital. This can be very destructive to the local economy because it drives up the cost of living for the people who are actually contributing economically. In the last ten years, fourteen million households have been foreclosed on.
They are raising the density of the place enormously but they’re actually de-urbanizing.”
“That’s almost forty million people thrown out” said Sassen. “That’s a lot of materiality [made] invisible.”
Sassen related this idea of loss of habitat and simultaneous gain of corporate profit to historical economic trends.
“It’s not like the Keynesian period after World War II [in which] the [middle class] grows,” she said. “If you’re doing better, you don’t care that much about the fact that the rich middle class is doing even better than you. But what we have now is loss, loss, loss, gain, gain, gain.”
“I can imagine an extreme period with two rising urban formats. […] Endless stretches, some of it becomes slums, some of it not, some of it is legal, some is not, but very very dense. All those people who are being expelled, many of them wind up here. And then massive expansion of these corporate centres.”
Sassen concluded her talk by showing a photograph of luxury highrises next door to a deeply impoverished neighbourhood. This, she implied, is our future.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
