The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Salon-style discussion opens up dialogue on silencing
On Wednesday January 11, a salon-style discussion about women’s experiences with self-silencing was organized by Imago Theatre, in partnership with Béatrice Média, at Cafe Sfouf, an intimate venue welcoming approximately thirty people.
Hosted by Rebecca Munroe, a radio host at CJLO – 1690AM, the talk featured three panelists: Dominique Pirolo, a Talent Acquisition Specialist for the German multinational software corporation SAP; Tracey Steer, a writer and blogger whose work has appeared in Today’s Parent and Reader’s Digest; and Christina Vroom, the Associate Director of University Advancement at McGill’s Faculty of Dentistry.
The panel discussion accounted for the first part of the event, in which the panelists explored when and why they censored themselves. Following this, audience members were invited to share their own experiences of self-censorship. Eventually, the conversation progressed into a collective exchange of strategies to combat the entrenched structures that contribute to why women feel inclined to recede and self-silence.
The event was organized as part of the launch of Imago Theatre’s Intractable Woman, an upcoming production about Anna Politkovskaya, the only Russian journalist to have covered the war in Chechnya who was subsequently assassinated for her work. Imago Theatre described Intractable Woman as “a story about the inalienable right to freedom of expression.”
Speaking to The Daily on the importance of organizing such events, Jen Quinn, the Artistic and Administrative Associate of Imago Theatre, emphasized that media has a unique role to play in catalyzing dialogue.
“We always try to create a platform to empower,” Quinn said. “Part of the work that we do is always about engaging in conversation and making sure that it is a lateral conversation that anybody is welcome to participate in.”
Béatrice Média echoes a similar mission to “[spark] the kind of authentic conversation that boosts empathy and explores new ways of improving the female experience every day,” according to its website.
Munroe commenced the panel discussion by asking the panelists to think back to an experience when they felt as if they couldn’t speak up. The varied answers emphasized different silencing factors, such as family dynamics, gender expectations, and race.
Pirolo reflected on her childhood, citing the expectation of diplomacy as one of the reasons that she censored herself.
“I was a people-pleaser. Most girls want to please and be a people pleaser. So we’re not really thinking about forcing your opinion, you want to keep it peaceful, you want to fit in,” she said. “And then I started experiencing things later on that changed all that. Back then I was very quiet and now I’m very vocal. I object to everything.”
Vroom’s reflections similarly pointed to how the expectation of politeness and tact contributed to her self-silencing.
“With my two brothers, I felt very much like I needed to be the peacemaker in my family,” Vroom said. “I had an opinion but I didn’t know where it fit in or whether I should vocalize it […]. I didn’t like rocking the boat when I was younger. It made me very uncomfortable.”
Steer spoke of how being a Black woman influences her experiences with self-silencing. “I live in Westmount – and it’s a mostly white neighbourhood, and I’ve lived mostly among white people my whole life, it’s not a problem,” she shared. “But it’s also a strange little neighbourhood because I’ve been mistaken for the maid and the nanny all the time, and that never happened before.”
“There’s also something to be said about not wanting to be ‘that person.’ I don’t want to be the sort of person who’s always talking about race, or that angry Black woman,” she continued.
Steer further shared an instance of self-silence: “[I was] walking around with my kids, and my baby, and people would fawn over my son and a woman said to me once, ‘Is your husband Caucasian?’ and I said, ‘yes,’ and she said, ‘Oh he’s so beautiful, you’re lucky he has white features’.”
“The thing is, I knew she was trying to give me a compliment. I knew that,” she continued. “I was gobsmacked. There was that thing in my head that said, ‘say something.’ But I didn’t, because I didn’t want to make the situation uncomfortable for her. But those kinds of things have happened many, many times. And there’s nothing really that small about it.”
Vroom also spoke about the issue of not speaking up to make sure other people feel comfortable.
She shared that there is “an individual that I have to work with, so if you will, my client, and this individual has made me extremely uncomfortable, this individual likes spending time with me and I’m not interested in anything except the work that we do together. I find myself in a knot when I have to see this individual or spend time with them.”
“One of these days I need to stand up to myself and draw the line and say, ‘This is our time together, this is what we will discuss, it will not go beyond those boundaries.’ I haven’t done that yet, and it’s been two years,” she continued.
“It’s like that expression pick your battles. And that expression has been used so often […]. And I agree with it because there are times when it’s not worth it, but at the same time, that’s a form of self-censorship. Why shouldn’t we say ‘that made me uncomfortable, that upset me,’ when that happens?” she elaborated.
The discussion concluded when Munroe asked the panelists about how they have progressed from self-silencing to freely communicating their thoughts and concerns.
“When I became much more assertive with myself and not shy,” Vroom said,” a male friend of mine–we’re not friends anymore, said, ‘you’ve become very aggressive,’ and I said, ‘I think you mean assertive,’ and he said, ‘no, aggressive’. So in his eyes, I was aggressive. And he said, ‘I think that’s why you’re single.’”
“You don’t want to be seen as a bitch,” Steer added. “If you’re still in a place of feeling like you need to please people, you don’t want to rock boats, you don’t want to make people uncomfortable.”
The second part of the event involved an audience talkback in which people shared experiences and strategies for navigating difficult situations. Audience members expressed concerns over the talk’s perceived lack of attention on systemic structures of oppression that figure in why women are more inclined to censor themselves.
In an interview with The Daily, Rhiannon Collett, a playwright who attended the event, shared that she “felt that the conversation had been veering around the ghost of the actual problem.”
“A lot of the conversation was about moderating our opinions and behaviour in reaction to a system that constantly [tries] to get us down,” she said, ”so, the conversations around how to be assertive and not aggressive really frustrate me because what we’re actually talking about is a systemic problem.”
However, Ocean DeRouchie, Fringe Arts Editor for Concordia University’s student newspaper The Link still noted that “it was really nice to be able to talk in a room full of women, and just being able to hear their thoughts and experiences. As another woman working in media, it’s sometimes really hard to have your ideas heard and this is that reminder to keep kicking ass.”
Speaking to The Daily, the host Rebecca Munroe, shared DeRouchie’s sentiments: “When [an audience member] brought up the fact that when she was in high school, she was able to put up her hand and be very vocal in class, and in the moment she got to university she all of the sudden stopped talking, that resonated with me.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
ASEF proposal presented to councillors 
On Wednesday January 11, the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) Legislative Council gathered for its first meeting of the Winter 2017 semester. Council voted on a motion regarding Winter general elections, tabled a motion to create a SNAX committee, and heard discussion about amendments to the Arts Student Employment Fund (ASEF). Council also heard announcements and reports from AUS executives, senators, and representatives.
During question period, VP Internal Kira Smith raised what she called an “impromptu question.”
“You can get back to me in email or in person, but we’re noticing that there are quite a few absences from [AUS] council,” she said. “If there’s something that we can do that can make your time easier, so you’re not missing Council, or not forgetting reports, please let me know.”
“If there’s something that we can do that can make your time easier, so you’re not missing Council, or not forgetting reports, please let me know.”
“I don’t really want to have to follow up with you,” she continued, “and I’m sure everything will be fine in the end, but it’s really important to me that people are at Council, and you are submitting your reports, and you don’t have to be penalized, so let me know if there’s a way to make anything easier in regards to that.” Smith suggested deadlines as a potential measure to help councillors better manage their time.
The motion to create a SNAX committee was tabled until next Council meeting. AUS President Becky Goldberg moved to table the motion to allow for “more consultation to reflect the committee membership.”
Council also heard a motion to hold the Winter general elections.
“Last year, we pushed up the elections for executives to give them more time to transition into their roles before the new year,” said the mover of the motion, “so we’ve kept that updated timeline for this election cycle.” The motion passed with no objections.
While new executives will be allowed to campaign between February 13 and 23, with polling stations open from the 16th onwards, departmental elections and the referendum period will remain on the same schedule, to better allow departmental executives to finish the projects they’ve been working on.
AUS VP Academic Erik Partridge spoke about changes to the Arts Student Employment Fund bylaws.
“In the past, the Arts Student Employment Fund has given each new professor in the Faculty of Arts $5,000, […] to spend on undergraduate casual research assistants’ [salaries] for the first three years,” Partridge explained.
While new executives will be allowed to campaign between February 13 and 23, with polling stations open from the 16th onwards, departmental elections and the referendum period will remain on the same schedule, to better allow departmental executives to finish the projects they’ve been working on.
He then explained how, in the past, after those three years, those funds seemed to “have just been going back to McGill, into their bank account, and we [had] nothing to gain from those funds.”
Patridge said this seems to have been happening for a “shockingly long time,” and since those losses have been discovered, a great deal of that money has been recovered.
In addition to amendments to ASEF allocations and working with Associate Dean Engle-Warnick (Research and Graduate Studies) over the last nine months, Patridge says he’s been working on a proposal to make the ASEF “one general fund.” This fund would employ people at the discretion of a committee, headed by the Dean of Arts, which would include four student members.
Patridge said this seems to have been happening for a “shockingly long time,” and since those losses have been discovered, a great deal of that money has been recovered.
Partridge highlighted that under the new proposal, AUS would allocate money twice a year, once in November, and once in February. Eventually, however, AUS would reclaim money that wasn’t spent to benefit other professors. Partridge and the Speaker then invited people to discuss this proposal before it eventually makes its way to Council in the coming weeks.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
But many AMUSE members still feel insecure about employment
On Monday January 9, the Association of McGill University Support Employees’ (AMUSE) membership ratified a new collective agreement with the University. As the ratification vote is legally binding, AMUSE members were the only ones allowed to be present during the vote, but it is reported that the vote passed with 84 per cent of those present in favour.
The union represents a network of casual and temporary employees on campus: 85 per cent of AMUSE’s membership consists of student employees. The collective agreement will expire on May 31, 2020.
The union has been without a collective agreement with the University since May 2015, over a year and half ago. Frustration with the University’s intransigence over a $15 minimum wage for AMUSE employees resulted in the union adopting a strike mandate in late October, resulting in a five day strike from October 29 to November 2.
“The new Collective Agreement will come into effect as soon as it is signed by the two parties — likely in the next few weeks, and changes to pay, job classifications, and other working conditions will come into effect immediately thereafter,” reads a press release on AMUSE’s website.
“The new Collective Agreement will come into effect as soon as it is signed by the two parties — likely in the next few weeks, and changes to pay, job classifications, and other working conditions will come into effect immediately thereafter.”
Claire Michela, president of AMUSE, told The Daily in an interview that she hopes the agreement will be signed before February.
Until then, AMUSE has released a “Ratification Kit” detailing all of the collective agreement’s newest provisions, including pay increases, changes to membership list dissemination, and renewed efforts regarding Work Study programs and identification access cards.
The ratification of a new collective agreement will see a rise in minimum wages for all employees within Unit A. Other AMUSE employees, like Floor Fellows in McGill residences, fall under Unit B.
Class A employees’ minimum wage will go from $10.85 an hour to $13.75 an hour, a 26.73 per cent increase in salary for many employees. Class B and C employees’ minimum wage will also increase to $13.75, but will increase incrementally in the years to come.
Under the new collective agreement, both AMUSE and the University have agreed to “organize a meeting twice a year” (once in the Summer term, and once in the Winter term of every academic year) to “discuss topics of mutual interest relative to the Work Study program as it applies to employees covered by this Collective Agreement,” according to the “Ratification Kit.”
Those present at the meetings will include the Director of McGill’s Office of Scholarships and Student Aid, members of AMUSE’s leadership, and students who are part of the Work Study program.
Prior to entering into negotiations with the University, AMUSE had made its dissatisfaction with the Work Study program clear.
“The agenda would potentially include topics like the posting of assignments and the duration of postings on the Work Study website,” reads the “Ratification Kit.” These were both issues students who had participated in Work Study commonly complained of.
In addition to meetings regarding Work Study, the University has agreed, in coordination with AMUSE, to “establish a joint committee to discuss and review the feasibility of access to identification cards for non-student employees.” This was another of AMUSE’s main bargaining priorities.
The mandate of said committee would be to “discuss and review the current process relative to identification cards for non-student employees covered by this Collective Agreement and to allow non-student employees to have access to Identification Cards.”
The committee would in theory eventually provides McGill’s Human Resources and Security Services recommendations “to the current arrangement relative to the issuance of identification cards for purposes of on-campus identification, workplace access and uPrint privileges as required.”
According to Michela, this committee was struck because the University implied it would be difficult logistically or with the system they work with to provide ID cards for non-student employees.
However, she noted that the committee would “have the time and energy to go into those specific details that they did not want to go into during negotiations […] and hopefully would have the strength to make some changes.”
In the past, AMUSE’s leadership has had difficulty communicating with the union’s membership. For example, in the past some employees have not known they were part of AMUSE.
Under the new collective agreement, the union will now receive their membership list every month. Previously, they only received it three times per year. The University has six months to reprogram their systems to generate said list.
While the ratification vote passed with a majority voting in favor of the collective agreement, many AMUSE employees still fear for their employment.
Last November, bookstore employees (who fall under AMUSE) received an email from their employers announcing that the store’s move from McTavish to the new Sherbrooke and Parc locations will prompt a reorganization of how part time employees are scheduled. As opposed to having regular part-time schedules, “casuals” will now only be scheduled during peak periods, drastically reducing their hours.
“We’re happy with the agreement and excited for the change of minimum wage in February,” said a group of bookstore employees in a statement to The Daily, “however bookstore employees are still concerned over our future employment status.”
Last semester, many bookstore employees felt that the reorganization was due in part to the new collective bargaining agreement. However, a letter obtained by The Daily revealed that the administration has rejected that claim. McGill’s Director of Employee and Labor Relations told an AMUSE executive that “the University’s decision to manage the casual’s schedule differently is not related whatsoever to the current tentative agreement with AMUSE.”
In addition to bookstore employees, many floor fellows have begun to fear for their own livelihoods.
Last week, the Human Resources subcommittee of the McGill Board of Governors vetoed an agreement the University had reached with AMUSE’s bargaining team regarding Floor Fellow negotiations last December, which would feature heightened salaries for Floor Fellows in McGill residences.
“The Human Resources Committee has proven that the word of its own labour negotiators is hollow,” said Michela in a subcommittee meeting not open to the public. “By reneging on commitments made at the bargaining table, you have lost our respect and damaged our trusts.”
AMUSE has publically stated that it has calculated that the committee’s concerns with the proposed Floor Fellow negotiations amount to $151,000 annually.
“If the University was committed to respecting this agreement and to respecting Floor Fellows, we believe that you would be able to find such a sum in the University’s budget,” Michela concluded.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Council denounces Bill 62
Last week’s meeting of the Student’s Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council began with a robust question period: councillors confronted Provost and Vice-Principal (Academic) Christopher Manfredi, who was present at Council, with questions concerning student labour rights, McGill’s swamped Mental Health Services, financial aid, and more.
Later, Council passed two motions, one of which expressed opposition to Quebec’s controversial Bill 62 on religious expression, and the other of which set up a provisional mechanism through which SSMU’s Board of Directors (BoD) will report regularly to Council.
Environment Representative Tuviere Okome opened the session by questioning the administration’s apparent display of bad faith during contract negotiations with McGill’s floor fellows.
Earlier that day, it emerged that a Board of Governors’ subcommittee had rescinded their approval of an agreement which would have granted floor fellows a salary in exchange for their work; at the moment, they are simply provided with room and board.
“Floor fellows right now are doing work for free, and the work they do is so immense,” said Okome. “These are your students that are really helping first-years, […] and they’re working so hard, and McGill backtracked out of giving them money that I think [they] can afford. […] I’m just wondering why that decision was made.”
“These are your students that are really helping first-years, […] and they’re working so hard, and McGill backtracked out of giving them money that I think [they] can afford. […] I’m just wondering why that decision was made.”
Manfredi offered no substantive response to Okome’s concerns, only stating that as per standard University procedure, neither he nor any other administrator could comment on an ongoing labour negotiation.
Okome also raised concerns about McGill’s limited accessibility to prospective students from lower-income backgrounds. She noted that recent discourse around systemic oppression operating at McGill has often included issues of race, but has paid less attention to socioeconomic class.
“We’re not known for being diverse in terms of class at this university, […] and I was wondering what you’re going to be doing […] to make sure that the school […] is accommodating to people from higher and lower classes, because I think it’s beneficial for people from higher and lower classes to interact and to learn from each other.”
Manfredi agreed, assuring Okome that his forthcoming ‘strategic plan’ would include “meaningful and achievable targets with respect to increasing student financial assistance,” to address this problem.
In response, Science Representative Caitlin Mehrotra pointed out that financial aid at McGill is often contingent on academic performance, which is itself a form of inaccessibility. According to Manfredi, though, the aforementioned expansion of financial aid would be mainly needs-based.
“We’re not known for being diverse in terms of class at this university, […] and I was wondering what you’re going to be doing […] to make sure that the school […] is accommodating to people from higher and lower classes, because I think it’s beneficial for people from higher and lower classes to interact and to learn from each other.”
During the rest of the discussion, councillors made it clear that, among other things, they expected McGill’s administration to conduct extensive student consultation in improving Mental Health Services on campus, keep the community updated on the progress of the Provost’s Task Force on Indigenous Studies and Indigenous Education, and actively implement the recently approved Policy Against Sexual Violence.
The first motion discussed at Council concerned Quebec’s Bill 62, which would prohibit anyone who has their face covered from working in the public sector or receiving public services.
Although framed as a measure which would protect state secularism, the bill has drawn much criticism for Islamophobic undertones. Citing SSMU’s identity as “an organization that is committed to leadership in matters of human rights and strives to oppose discrimination,” the motion called on the Society to publicly denounce the bill, and “to advocate against any further movement toward the adoption of the Bill as it stands.”
Councillors were overwhelmingly favourable to the motion, with several councillors asking to have their names added to it, in addition to the two original movers. The only note of opposition came from Engineering Representative Richard (Tre) Mansdoerfer, who, while expressing unequivocal condemnation of the bill itself, questioned SSMU for taking positions on some ‘external’ issues but not others. Mansdoerfer said that the Society had not, for example, taken a position on the ongoing multilateral conflict in Syria.
“I think there’s a difference between taking a stance on this bill, which is […] in Canada, and specifically in Quebec, […] and [taking a stance on] the complex situation in Syria,” responded Mehrotra, dismissing the latter notion as “ridiculous.”
“I think there’s a difference between taking a stance on this bill, which is […] in Canada, and specifically in Quebec, […] and [taking a stance on] the complex situation in Syria.”
Okome concurred, adding that the bill’s discriminatory content made it a pressing concern.
“Quebec has always had a strange view of the religion of Islam, and this is what this bill is,” she said. “It’s perpetuating Islamophobia in Canada, and just to explain, telling a woman to put on or take off clothes […] there’s nothing feministic about either of those things.”
“I think SSMU’s stance on this is really important, especially in the political era where we are. […] We should stand on the side of the oppressed,” Okome concluded.
Ultimately, the motion passed with 95 per cent in favour, five per cent abstaining, and none opposed.
Last year, Council implemented a series of governance reforms, with the goal of streamlining Council by shifting certain administrative responsibilities to the Society’s Board of Directors.
Unfortunately, the reforms, while valuable, failed to put in place mechanisms whereby the BoD could report to Council on the execution of its new tasks. In November, the Democratic Governance Review Committee was founded to address this situation, and ensure the transparency and accountability of both the BoD and Council.
Several members of the committee were involved in creating the motion at hand, which proposed that the BoD would present a report on its activities at every Council meeting. This interim measure would remain in effect until the end of May 2017.
After minimal discussion, the motion passed with 95 per cent for, five per cent abstaining, and none opposed.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
First-year law students and faculty reflect on mandatory class
The first week of the Winter semester saw first-year students in McGill’s Faculty of Law participating in a mandatory week-long intensive course on Indigenous legal traditions.
The course is part of the Faculty’s response to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s (TRC) report, released in 2015. (The TRC was organized to investigate the abuse inflicted on Indigenous peoples through the Indian residential school system.) Professor Kirsten Anker told The Daily in a phone interview that the Commission recommended that all Canadian law students take a course on Indigenous issues.
Anker, who taught a session as part of the intensive course, lectures about property, and Aboriginal peoples and the law at McGill. In creating the course, the Faculty of Law built upon the elective courses on Indigenous issues she herself developed.
“The door was open to Indigenous traditions but nothing really robust had been done to build them into the transsystemic program,” Anker said. The transsystemic program is the Faculty of Law’s unique undergraduate law degree that integrates both common and civil law into a single program.
“Instead of just teaching what’s called Aboriginal law […] we started bringing Indigenous law and traditions into the picture and kind of trying to have a […] dialogue about law between traditions, which is kind of the gist of what transsystemic law or legal education means,” she continued. “So it’s kind of taken that model, that idea, and brought it into a week for the whole first year [class].”
In an email to The Daily, professor Hoi Kong, one of the creators of the course, explained that the course was also inspired by “discussions, students, faculty, and other stakeholders had over the past few years about how to renew the curriculum.”
“The door was open to Indigenous traditions but nothing really robust had been done to build them into the transsystemic program.”
“The specific content of the course emerged in part from conversations that Professor Napoleon (from the University of Victoria) and Professor Friedland (from the University of Alberta), and I have had over the years, during their visits here and mine at the University of Victoria, and from a course that Professor Napoleon and I co-taught, and another that Professor Friedland taught here,” he elaborated.
The content used specific examples from Cree law, and included the “historical context, theories, and sources of Indigenous laws, as well as modes of interpreting and applying those sources,” he added.
When asked about the response from faculty and students, Anker said her impression was that “students were really engaged and they found it really interesting.”
“It was working really well in the way that it’s been set up to kind of mirror the integration week they did in first semester: looking at common and civil law about […] the question of safe injection spaces for [Intravenous] drug users,” she continued. “I think that worked […] really well […] because one of the challenges of learning Indigenous law is that it’s often in the abstract; someone can talk about it, but you don’t really get a sense of how it works as law until you try to do something with it.”
Anker added that other faculty members are also excited about giving more space to Indigenous issues in the curriculum.
Kong shared Anker’s sentiments, adding that he has been “really moved by the sincerity of the expressions of support.”
“I think that worked […] really well […] because one of the challenges of learning Indigenous law is that it’s often in the abstract; someone can talk about it, but you don’t really get a sense of how it works as law until you try to do something with it.”
In a phone interview with The Daily, Allan Vicaire, First People’s House and Social Equity and Diversity Education (SEDE) Office’s Indigenous Education Advisor, shared his excitement about the initiative.
“I think it’s about time that the University is pushing to include Indigenous perspectives in the classroom,” he said.
“I think sometimes we forget, especially at McGill, there are some great professors out there that are ready to push for Indigenous perspectives, and [ensure] that curriculum is inclusive,” he continued.
Vicaire noted that this initiative differs from others because the faculty is “ensuring that every student […] is being exposed to Indigenous issues.” He believes the next step is for other faculties to begin thinking of how they can implement that.
“I think it’s about time that the University is pushing to include Indigenous perspectives in the classroom.”
However, at least one first-year law student, Isabelle*, found that the course was problematic, particularly because of a lack of Indigenous voices.
“The instructors told us that was due to several reasons: that we should gain a background knowledge on Indigenous culture and legal systems before engaging with Indigenous peoples as a symbol of respect, and that there is a significant strain on Indigenous academics right now,” she said in an email to The Daily.
“I completely understand and respect these decisions, as well as the importance of putting in the work ourselves, however, it often felt as if we were learning from the wrong people,” she continued.
Isabelle further noted that the course content felt introductory, which is useful for students who had not previously been exposed to Indigenous issues, but left others wanting more.
She went on to say that “this week seemed to fit very well with a colonial legal education. It seemed to emphasize voices and analyses of academics who sought to engage with colonial legal systems and who took a reconciliationist approach. It often felt as if many more radical, or even separationist perspectives were missing, those that are often missing in internal legal conversations in law school.”
When asked what more needs to be done in teaching students about Indigenous issues, Anker highlighted the importance of transforming colonial power dynamics.
“This week seemed to fit very well with a colonial legal education.”
“It’s not just about giving people information, although that’s a really important part. It’s also about establishing that pedagogy and that learning environment has to come out of a relationship with communities,” she added.
She further highlighted the importance of developing “relationships in which we’re building a connection with communities and we’re implicated in them and they’re implicated in us.”
In terms of the course’s future development, Kong noted that a faculty committee is working to determine the next steps, such as the possibility of making this type of mandatory course longer.
Both Anker and Isabelle shared their belief that Indigenous law should be integrated into all of the courses offered by the Faculty of Law.
“It’s not just about giving people information, although that’s a really important part. It’s also about establishing that pedagogy and that learning environment has to come out of a relationship with communities.”
“Engaging with Indigeneity and colonialism means going beyond the classroom and working towards decolonization in every sense of the word,” Isabelle said. “It means challenging the culture of our classrooms and the Faculty in general; challenging its whiteness, its colonial history (and present), its heteropatriarchy. We need to think about and challenge what a legal education actually means within a settler-colonial context.”
*Name has been changed.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
