The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
The Legislative Council of the Arts Undergraduate Society (AUS) met on Wednesday January 25. Councilors created an oversight committee for SNAX, the student-run cafe in the Leacock Building, and dealt with various administrative matters.
The motion to create an ad-hoc SNAX Oversight and Advisory Committee passed unanimously, as a result of the cafe’s “significant financial impact on the budget of the AUS” and its lack of direct accountability to Council. The Committee will be co-chaired by the AUS President and the VP Finance, and include four councilors and one SNAX cashier.
It is mandated to “improve [the] financial state” of the cafe, which ran a deficit last semester, the exact amount of which was not revealed at Council, and to present a report at every meeting of AUS Council.
Council also voted unanimously to reinstate the Italian Studies Student Association, which was temporarily inactive. They also unanimously agreed to appoint AUS VP Academic Erik Partridge and Arts Senator William Cleveland to the Arts Student Employment Fund Committee (ASEFC).
As stated in a motion that was then proposed from the floor, the ASEFC “meets annually to allocate funding for research and other academically advancing positions across campus.”
This motion aimed to reinstate Arts Senator Charles Keita as a member of AUS Council. Apparently, Keita had been automatically suspended from Council because, due to a scheduling conflict, he had missed more than four meetings over the Fall semester. Despite this, however, he had continued to serve on Senate. The motion in question, which passed unanimously at Wednesday’s meeting, simply made him an official AUS councilor once again.
Finally, Council heard reports from various departmental associations, from the Arts Representatives and Senators, and from the AUS Executives.
In her report, AUS VP Communications Chanèle Couture De-Graft explained that Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning) Ollivier Dyens had created a taskforce “to reenvision the pathway to a McGill degree.” Couture De-Graft sits on the committee, and asked students at Council to consult with her if they wanted her to bring any ideas to future meetings of the taskforce.
A previous version of this article stated that Ollivier Dyens had instigated the creation of a taskforce, which would include student members, and that Couture De-Graft had invited any interested students to get in touch with her. In fact, the taskforce has already been created, Couture De-Graft sits on the committee, and she had asked students to consult with her if they had any ideas they wanted her to bring to the taskforce. The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Councilors and committees give reports, potential AVEQ affiliation
On Thursday January 26 the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council met to hear a notice of motion regarding the amendment of the internal regulations of governance, as well as reports from various committees and from councilors and the SSMU executive team.
The notice of motion regarding the amendment of the internal regulations of governance was read by Igor Sadikov, Arts Representative and a former Daily editor.
The motion, according to Sadikov, “primarily consists of […] a set of suggested internal regulations for [SSMU’s] Board of Directors.”
The proposed internal regulations focus on procedures and clarifying the relationship between the Council and the Board.
“Currently, the process is that the Board ratifies all Council decisions,” Sadikov continued, “so this would retain that process, however, Council decisions would basically come into effect immediately, and then the Board would have a choice of ratifying or overturning them, and if it’s overturned, it would come back to the Legislative Council, and basically the internal regulations would recommend that the Board only exercise this power very sparingly.”
The motion provides further clarification on the Board’s power, including its ability to recommend a referendum question to the Council. This power, Sadikov explained, is outlined in SSMU’s Constitution, but the process for recommending a referendum question is unclear, and thus this motion aims to clarify it.
“Some of the more substantive things are in terms of dealing with [Judicial Board] decisions,” he added. “The two main changes are that the Board has the option to refer an opinion of the [Judicial Board] to Legislative Council, and the other change is that overturning the opinion of the [Judicial Board] no longer requires a four-fifths majority, and this is because ratifying a [Judicial Board] opinion requires a simple majority, so if you don’t have a majority to ratify […] it doesn’t have effect, so I guess this is just a way to make that explicit and not have this limbo state where it is neither ratified nor overturned.”
Engineering Representative Richard (Tre) Mansdoerfer voiced some concerns regarding the removal of the supermajority in regards to overturning a Judicial Board opinion.
“I feel like [Judicial Board] decisions should be held to a higher standard and that they shouldn’t be that easily overturnable,” he said. “[The Judicial Board] makes decisions on things such as […] SSMU elections, and for the Board of Directors to be able to overturn a [Judicial Board] decision on that, such as when candidates maybe do violate protocol, I don’t feel comfortable.”
Mansdoerfer added that he would like to see a supermajority added to the Legislative Council portion in terms of its ability to overturn Judicial Board opinions.
Clubs Representative Adam Templer questioned Appendix A, article 1.3.1, of the motion, which states: “The Board of Directors should only exercise its power to overturn resolutions of the Legislative Council to protect the legal, financial, or operational well-being of the Society.”
“I think that there are a number of different situations in which the Board of Directors might […] consider itself in a position where it needs to exercise power to overturn resolutions of Council beyond just the legal, financial, or operational well-being of the Society,” he said.
He added that “given that the Board of Directors is supposed to be sort of the ultimate governing body,” he felt that this article also had weak wording, and suggested the word ‘should’ be changed.
Sadikov responded that the word should is used for the possibility that the Board might find other reasons to overturn a Council decision.
“The reason I think it’s still worth it to include it is to give guidance to the Board of Directors as to what it should be thinking about when considering overturning the resolutions of the Council,” he said.
Following the notice of motion, committee reports, and a few councilor reports, the SSMU executives (apart from VP Operations Sacha Magder who was unable to attend) presented their reports.
As part of his report, VP External David Aird explained that he, and VP University Affairs Erin Sobat recently attended the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec’s (AVEQ) members assembly, but said that he would provide a full report at the next Council meeting.
However, Sadikov asked if Aird could provide a few more details about what was discussed at the assembly, for those councilors who were interested.
Aird agreed and continued on: “We talked about some internal policies of the federation and also in terms of social political affairs, there’s a consultation coming up by the provincial government on sexual violence policies in universities.”
“The idea behind that is to mobilize support and get student input on […] what, if anything, a law […] that would mandate universities to have their own policies [would look like],” he explained.
He also shared that he attended the mobilization and association development commission at the assembly, where they discussed ongoing association campaigns.
At the Winter 2016 General Assembly, a question went to referendum asking students whether they would like to affiliate with AVEQ. While students voted against affiliation, Aird expressed that “it does look like we would like to re-ask the question this year during the referendum to McGill students.”
“The feeling is that seeing as there were so many abstentions last year that people just aren’t really aware of what a federation is,” he explained. He plans to try to increase students’ understanding of student federations by tabling.
At its December 1, 2016 meeting, the Board of Governors [BoG] passed a motion whereby members of the McGill community will be allowed to submit written questions and attend a twenty minute question-and-answer period twice a year at BoG meetings. This aimed to facilitate greater interaction between the McGill community and BoG, and was sparked by SSMU executives’ efforts to increase the BoG’s accountability to students.
In his report, Sobat noted that at the Senate meeting on January 18, “the President [Ben Ger] and I asked a question about university governance best practices, kind of to determine the best way forward in pushing for reform to the McGill Board of Governors.”
“We’ve […] settled on an ad hoc committee at the Board as an option,” he continued, “assuming we could get some sort of parity of both governors and non-governors.”
“As it stands, the Board effectively regulates itself when it comes to everything, including succession planning, outreach to and nomination of external members at large, best practices and evaluation of their success. So [we are] trying to see some more accountability and oversight of that body,” he said.
Sobat also shared that the University Affairs office is planning to submit a case to the Advisory Council on the Charter of Student Rights regarding academic accommodations, “identifying issues with […] McGill accommodation policies across the Universities and with some recommendations for improvement.”
“Fun fact, the new Senior Director of Student Services told us that she’s surprised there haven’t been more human rights complaints because our office for students with disabilities is so understaffed,” he added.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Montreal mayor calls for consultations on Indigenous health centre
Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre has told the Montreal Urban Aboriginal Health Centre (MUAHC) Board of Directors to stop circulating a petition drive seeking public consultation to secure a building for an Indigenous Health Centre in Montreal.
He apparently told members of the group last Wednesday that he has agreed to their request, and will “hold consultations on opening a specialized centre for the needs of Indigenous people in Montreal,” according to CTV News Montreal.
Unlike many other prominent Canadian cities, including Toronto and Ottawa, Montreal does not have an Indigenous Health Centre.
Volunteers under the MUAHC Board of Directors (itself associated with the Montreal Urban Aboriginal Community Strategy, or NETWORK) were attempting to rectify this, petitioning across Montreal to gather the 15,000 signatures necessary to secure official public consultation on an Indigenous Health Centre.
Efforts included visiting local university and CEGEP campuses, and a petition drive on the McGill campus last Friday, January 20.
The mayor’s decision could potentially be seen as a victory for petitioners, primarily because of the sheer difficulty of obtaining 15,000 signatures before the previously established deadline of February 25, 2017.
“We’re not allowed to get electronic signatures,” said Pascale Annoual, a member of NETWORK who was present on the McGill campus to obtain signatures, in an interview with The Daily. “The city doesn’t trust [those] signatures.”
Annoual explained that the city is working on making petitioning more accessible in a more technology-driven world, but as of now, petitions like this one are “bound by the old laws.”
In addition to that restriction, only residents of certain municipalities could sign, with residents of other municipalities unable to because they fall under the category of “independent cities,” or separate municipal jurisdictions. For example, residents of Montreal Nord-Centre could not sign the petition.
Currently, many Inuit and First Nations people seek support at the Native Friendship Centre and Projet Autochtone du Quebec, but go to the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) for medical help.
Those who were petitioning campaigned for a new Indigenous Health Centre in Montreal on the basis that Indigenous communities in Canada face higher barriers to health care and are disproportionately affected by certain medical concerns.
In 2013, the National Collaborating Centre for Aboriginal Health released a report detailing specific health issues faced by Indigenous communities in Canada.
“Even if the health of Indigenous communities has improved over the last few years, the state of health of First Nations, Inuit, and Metis people continues to be considerably inferior to those of other Canadians,” reads the report in French. “According to multiple indicators of health, the burden of illness or health disparities affecting First Nations, Inuit, and Metis peoples are still disproportionate.”
Volunteers who petitioned for signatures handed out press releases which in part detailed those disparities, explaining how “while Aboriginal peoples comprise 3.8 per cent of Canada’s population, they account for 8 per cent of people living with HIV and 12.5 per cent of new infections.” They also detailed how Indigenous people are at higher risk of developing tuberculosis, diabetes, and related complications.
“Greater effort is needed to provide Aboriginal people with culturally sensitive, inclusive health policies, and targeted health programs,” reads the press release.
Annoual detailed the challenges faced by Indigenous communities in Montreal, which comprise an estimated total of 20,000 people.
“You have a lot of provincial health services that are mostly in French, and they’re not holistic enough,” she explained, “so you [see] services for part of the population, but not all the population. […] Montreal, being more of a cosmopolitan city, could and would have to go beyond the provincial model, which is mostly francophone.”
Annoual also explained how provincial health services don’t cater to Indigenous needs.
“[In Quebec, there] is only one model: the pharmaco-medical model,” she said. “Basically, it’s highly specialized. If you have an earache, you go to your GP [General Practitioner] and they give you a reference to see your ENT [Ear Nose and Throat doctor]. If you hurt your right foot, you go back to your system, you see your GP, get a referral, and you go see another specialist.”
“If you have a different belief as to why you’re having those ailments, and how to get better for those ailments, let’s say that includes a spiritual belief, then you’re […] on your own,” she elaborated. “An Aboriginal Health Center model answers to physical, emotional, mental and spiritual perspectives on health – a holistic and integrated model, all under one roof. That doesn’t exist in Canada.”
The proposed health center wouldn’t be the first center in Montreal dedicated to addressing Indigenous-specific issues.
In 2010, the Ivirtivik Center (South) opened in the Montreal neighborhood of Verdun. Its goal was to aid Inuit participants in integrating into the workforce or to assist them in going back to school, offering activities, services, classes, and counseling in French, English, and Inuktitut.
However, while the center’s aims were admirable, this didn’t prevent some from campaigning against it during its initial construction. Certain locals in Verdun passed out flyers with “Not in my backyard,” written on them, objecting to the center’s construction for transparently racist reasons.
“Basically, it’s the same barriers as health services,” explained Annoual. “There’s a huge amount of stereotypes and misconceptions, and misinformation about [Indigenous peoples].
Annoual feels it’s important to remind Montrealers of the medical barriers Indigenous peoples face and the racial politics that might accompany those initiatives to solve them.
In an email to The Daily, Jasmine Ramze Rezaee, a project administrator at the McGill Centre for the Convergence of Health and Economics (MCCHE), as well as a member of NETWORK, emphasized that while recent developments with Coderre indicate a positive shift in the status quo, it is still just one component in the fight to aid Indigenous health issues in Montreal.
“Despite the Mayor’s promise to hold consultations on the issue,” she wrote, “we must not forget why culturally sensitive medical care is important. Aboriginal peoples face barriers to accessing health services that non-Aboriginals often do not, such as racism and discrimination, jurisdiction and eligibility issues, and lack of clarity and advocacy.”
“Only by addressing these issues in a collaborative, inclusive, and participatory manner can they be resolved,” she continued. “In this way, I hope that the public consultations headed by the Mayor will include strong Aboriginal representatives and produce concrete results.”
In her email, Ramze Rezaee highlighted the role of non-Indigenous allies in the struggle for better health.
“To clarify, I am an ally,” she wrote. “For me, it’s important to remember that I am a settler on this land, that I’ve benefitted from the history of colonialism – whether directly or indirectly – and that it is in my power to honour Aboriginal resilience through my support.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panelists discuss “pressure cooker” environment of university
On the evening of Wednesday January 25, a panel called “Life AYD: Mental Health Post-Graduation Panel” was held in the Shatner Building, as part of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU)’s Mental Health Awareness Week. This event was hosted by Life After Your Degree (Life AYD) in partnership with SSMU, Campus Life and Engagement (CL&E), Career Planning Service (CaPS), and McGill alumni. The panel aimed to combat the stigma around mental health, and connect undergraduate students with alumni.
Panelists included Ryan Golt, an alumnus who spoke out about his experience with mental illness in 2016; Ishani Ghosh, an alumnus who graduated at 2016; and Vickey Habel, an alumnus who, while at McGill, “discovered a new horizon in mental health and aims to help others find their path too,” according to the event’s Facebook page.
Aleks Djurdjevic, CL&E Project Development Specialist (Student Life) and Life AYD co-organizer, told The Daily that the event came about because “we recognized a need to connect students with McGill alumni to hear more about and normalize the mental health issues that can come up during university, and […] the value of hearing other people’s stories and hearing how they got to where they are.”
“We recognized a need to connect students with McGill alumni to hear more about and normalize the mental health issues that can come up during university, and […] the value of hearing other people’s stories and hearing how they got to where they are.”
“Mental health issues are important because to some extent, everybody will experience some in their lifetime. Hosting events like this is important because one of the most empowering things that you can do is talk about what’s going on,” Djurdjevic continued.
“At McGill, we’re trying to do more around graduation. We have a pretty strong program around entering orientation, we put a lot into orientation week, frosh events, but we don’t focus as much on when students are actually leaving,” she added.
“This is a great opportunity to actually hear what student concerns are. […] We’re trying to gauge info and hear what some of their anxieties are about graduation so that we can create more programming to help have their questions answered,” Djurdjevic concluded.
Panelists discussed their own personal experiences with mental health issues, as well as support networks available to undergraduate students struggling with stress and anxiety.
Ghosh addressed the University’s lack of capacity to help students experiencing mental health issues.
“I’ve had a lot of experiences with McGill Mental Health Services and […] I’ve had relatively positive experiences,” Ghosh said.
“Mental health issues are important because to some extent, everybody will experience some in their lifetime. Hosting events like this is important because one of the most empowering things that you can do is talk about what’s going on.”
“But it is […] clear that [compared to the] capacity […], the demand far exceeds the capacity of McGill Mental Health,” she continued. “Maybe there are ways for us to try to increase that capacity because I think that we’ve been relying on peer services, and student driven services, as well as awareness campaigns, to try to bridge that gap. But maybe that isn’t sufficient.”
In an interview with The Daily, Golt, who is also currently pursuing a Master’s degree in Educational Psychology, noted that graduation can be a particularly stressful time for students.
In his final year, Golt helped found Stronger than Stigma, a student-led initiative aimed to reduce stigma associated with mental illness on campus.
“The reason why I felt compelled to be a part of this program was due to my own personal experience with mental health, and ever since then I felt a passion and a duty to be as involved in this important cause as much as possible. So by sharing my story, by becoming a resource for students, it’s both healing to me to share my story and I find that it helps others,” Golt said.
“Maybe there are ways for us to try to increase that capacity because I think that we’ve been relying on peer services, and student driven services, as well as awareness campaigns, to try to bridge that gap. But maybe that isn’t sufficient.”
When asked why she decided to be a panelist, Ghosh told The Daily: “I thought it would be a helpful thing […] to come talk about my experience, the resources students have access to, […] unexpected things that can come up before and after graduation especially, because I found that to be a very stressful time. I think these are really important things that we need to talk about and keep viewing from different lenses, from different people’s experiences and getting as many perspectives as possible.”
One attendee, Marine Luciani, a U3 student who studies psychology at McGill, echoed Golt’s sentiment on graduation.
“I think [mental health] important because a lot of people don’t know about it, or don’t talk […] openly about it […]. I think it’s important to talk about it to get more awareness,” she told The Daily.
“Since I’m graduating, I think it’s important for me to know and see how other people have done,” Luciani added. “Any change can be stressful […], work […], school.”
During the discussion, Habel referred to McGill as a “pressure cooker” environment for students, as she stressed the importance of mental health awareness: “It doesn’t only affect the student level, but it can carry over to the workplace, and for the rest of your life.”
“It’s like having a good, healthy body, your healthy mind goes with it” she continued. “If you’re not healthy in the mind, the body falls through […]. The more you take care of your mental health and body as well, everything sort of improves around you. But once you’re afflicted with something like mental health, it’s like a broken bone; you can fix it, but you’ve got to know that you can fix it.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
 Students discuss lived experiences at panel 
Students gathered last Thursday for a panel discussion centred around lived experiences with mental illness, as part of the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Mental Health Awareness Week. Panelists included Alyssa Wooster, a third year psychology student, Alison Gu, a third year student and floor fellow at Douglas Hall, and Clark Bray, in his last year at McGill.
The focus of the panel was broad: it aimed to break down stigmas around mental illness, open discussion about how mental health has impacted students’ daily lives and identities, as well as how students have coped with their mental health at McGill.
According to the organizers, the event was intentionally open-ended in order to make it accessible to a broader range of attendees:. It began with each panelist telling their personal stories of mental illness.
Wooster talked about the way that the university environment exacerbated her anxiety disorder.
“I thought that everything would get better when I went to university because a lot of my dissatisfaction with my life was due to my home living conditions,” she said. “McGill’s gonna be the best four years of my life, I’m so excited, this is going to be amazing,’ and then I think I hit the lowest mental place in my life.”
“At the end of first year is when I realized there was a real problem,” Wooster continued. “And I was not speaking to any of my friends. I would climb up the back stairs of my [residence] just so I could avoid seeing anyone. I left at least one exam in tears. […] It kind of just got to a point where I was like, […] you need to be honest with yourself […] I think that it’s time that you go and you seek help.”
Gu talked about her experience recognizing mental illness in the context of physical injury.
“I had a great week of Frosh, learned how to kayak, it was great, it was fine. And then on the second day of school I got hit by a car and I got a concussion,” she said.
“Ninety per cent of concussions recover within two weeks, but ten per cent of them go longer than that, and when that happens it’s called post-concussion syndrome,” Gu explained. “And with that came a lot of horrible moments […] always just wondering if life is worth it.”
However, she had difficulty recognizing her mental illness because she thought it conflicted with her identity.
“I had become known as this fun jokester: super ambitious but also super goofy,” she elaborated. “My last name is Gu, people call me Gu, [friends] don’t call me by my first name just because [Gu] is more indicative of who I am as a person. […] If I told anyone that I was going through this then suddenly I wouldn’t be Gu anymore. I would have to become Alison, and I really didn’t want to become Alison.”
Gu also touched on the challenges that being a Floor Fellow poses to her mental health.
“Working as a Floor Fellow was more tumultuous that I realized because of how you can actually never have a consistent lifestyle,” she said.“You’re not eating well because [cafeteria] food sucks. You’re not sleeping well because first years are loud. The things that you deal with are pretty heavy. I never really understood the term emotional labor until I became a Floor Fellow.”
Bray told his story of developing mental illness in tandem with a life-threatening case of Ulcerative Colitis. “It’s a gastrointestinal disease, an autoimmune disorder,” he explained.
“Your large intestine thinks there’s something in your body that’s not there, and then starts to self destruct,” he said. “So I got my colon removed, I had to miss the end of my junior year of high school to get a bunch of surgeries.”
In his time off after high school, he developed severe depression, which cropped up again in his second year at McGill.
“I didn’t have any motivation to do anything, and I was in counselling and that wasn’t working. Somehow I made it through the year,” he recalled.
When he returned home, he had to have another series of operations. During treatment, his doctors came to him with shocking new developments.
“I learned that that they had hypothesized that one of the reasons I was so depressed was because your colon is responsible for secreting 85 to 90 per cent of your body’s serotonin, and that’s a really crucial hormone for mental health,” he explained. “When I had my surgeries there wasn’t enough of this research out for it to be something the surgeons would tell you about. I’m not even sure if they do to this day.”
His physical health continued to suffer and he developed a hernia.
“When I was recovering from my hernia surgery, I was diagnosed with PTSD. […] I was really dumbfounded because I just thought […] I haven’t fought in Iraq or anything. […] But then I started to look into the symptoms of it, how it develops, and realized I had everything that people with PTSD have.”
“You can develop PTSD from any traumatic experience, it’s a disease that’s often stigmatized,” he continued.
Wooster related a similar experience in which severe physical illness had effects on her mental health: “My mental health hit its lowest over the summer when, spoiler alert, I was diagnosed with cancer. I ended up having to drop out of McGill and move back home for four months.”
“When you’re a cancer patient or when you’re physically ill no one asks about your mental health,” she recalled. “Over these past few months I really learned how closely interrelated they are, and also things that are just like coping mechanisms, like if I wanted to go out for a run, I couldn’t.”
Gu noted that mental illness is still a struggle for people who have perfect physical health.
“I think it’s important to remember that while all three of us were kind of triggered by very serious health conditions, you can also have mental illness for a reason that doesn’t seem like a reason,” she clarified. “You don’t need a reason to feel depressed. Part of the frustration for me in the beginning, part of my depression, was that I felt like I had no reason. That was something I really gave myself crap for.”
Gu continued by discussing the benefits and shortcomings of therapy as a treatment for mental illness: “Talking about easy stuff […] can be really important and can kind of get the ball rolling to start that conversation, so you don’t jump into it by saying ‘I am dealing with horrible depression.’”
“Therapy doesn’t work for everyone,” she said, “but it also doesn’t work if you really don’t go into it with an open mind. And also sometimes it just doesn’t work because of who you’re matched with.”
“As counter-intuitive as it sounds,” she continued, “I think that sometimes it’s easier to talk to a stranger about it because they don’t have all these preconceived notions about who you are. And that’s why a therapist can be very cathartic.”
Wooster explained how sharing her experience had been a way of healing: “[I wrote] a blog post talking about all my personal issues with mental health and everything. [..] My mother who had been a big support was like, ‘Do you really want to put that on Facebook? Think about employers.’ What if your aunts and uncles see this.’ That was really a step back. I was like, ‘Mom this is really something I need to do for myself.’”
“I was brought to tears by the positive response it had,” she explained. ”I had people messaging me who I hadn’t talked to in years, just being like “thank you so much. I resonate with a lot of things you say.”
With regards to how people reacted when she told them about her her mental illness, Wooster said, “For every shitty response you get from someone there’s a million great responses.”
A previous version of this article stated that one of the panelists was Alyssa Rooster. In fact, her last name is Wooster. It also stated that Wooster talked about how the university experience exacerbated her depression. In fact it was an anxiety disorder. The Daily regrets these errors. 
The Daily has also updated the article to provide further context regarding Wooster’s last quote. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
