The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Diverse group of speakers call for solidarity and an end to intolerance



Content warning: This article contains mentions of suicide and sexual assault.
Continue or go back to the main page

On Saturday January 21, nearly ten thousand people gathered at Place des Arts in protest against Donald Trump’s inauguration as President of the United States, standing in solidarity with the “Women’s March on Washington” movement. The inauguration ceremony, which took place in Washington D.C. on Friday January 20, has sparked a wave of resistance around the world, with millions decrying Trump’s overt bigotry and destructive policy proposals.
Content warning: This article contains mentions of suicide and sexual assault.
Continue or go back to the main page
Many of the signs and slogans on display explicitly attacked misogyny and gendered violence. Several attempted to put a subversive spin on Trump’s own rhetoric with slogans such as “pussy bites back” and “pussy power.”
While such messages are likely well-intentioned, critics have noted their cisnormative undertones; by conflating female sexual organs with womanhood and feminism, this kind of discourse effectively erases the identity and the struggles of trans women who were assigned male at birth.
To their credit, however, the organizers of the Montreal rally made a point of featuring a diverse series of speakers, many of whom stressed the importance of intersectionality.
Dalia Tourki, a local activist for trans migrants’ rights, reminded those present that for racialized trans women struggling for status, virulent discrimination and misogyny are nothing new.
“What the media don’t mention,” said Tourki, speaking in French, “is that since 2009, one trans person has been killed every three days. What the media don’t mention is that in 2016, 98 trans people were killed, the majority of whom were Black and Latina. I know that under Donald Trump, the number of trans women killed by the end of 2017 will be even greater. I know that under Trump, the conditions of trans migrant women will be worse. But I also know that we’re already there. We experience discrimination, we experience suffering, whether it’s under Trump, or Obama, or Trudeau, or [Quebec Premier Philippe] Couillard. […] But we survive. We know how to stay strong.”
In a subsequent email to The Daily, Tourki clarified that, in fact, the number of trans and gender-diverse people who were killed in 2016 was actually much higher: the total number of murders around the world was 237.
Rachel Zellars, a PhD candidate at McGill in the Department of Integrated Studies in Education and Executive Director of The Girls Action Foundation, spoke to the crowd with her daughter by her side, urging solidarity and self-criticism.
“The new election has also sent a strong reminder of the work to be done between women,” Zellars said. “A clear majority of the white female voters […] in the United States voted for Trump, despite his racism and misogyny.”
At this, the crowd booed enthusiastically.
“What the media don’t mention is that in 2016, 98 trans people were killed, the majority of whom were Black and Latina. I know that under Donald Trump, the number of trans women killed by the end of 2017 will be even greater.”
“This statistic does not come of thin air, everyone,” Zellars went on. “It is rooted in the troubled histories of our first and second waves of feminism throughout North America. […] Although it is tempting here today to dismiss all of these things and Trump as a condition of U.S. history, we must risk promoting very dangerous ignorance in this moment if we fail to now look inwards to ourselves, and fail to make the connections between xenophobia and imperialism here at home, and also abroad.”
“Here in Quebec,” she continued, “we have our own intolerance that are supported by a long history of KKK activity, neo-Nazi organizations, and hate crimes. […] We have so much work to do together, and we have never needed each other so much as in this very moment.”
Émilie Nicolas, of Inclusive Quebec, also denounced apathy and complacency, quoting Martin Luther King Jr.’s famous denunciation of “the white moderate who is more devoted to ‘order’ than to justice; who prefers a negative peace which is the absence of tension to a positive peace which is the presence of justice.”
Leaders like Justin Trudeau and Philippe Couillard, she said, are guilty of this same ‘moderation,’ and their faux progressivism is a more insidious obstacle than Trump’s bigotry.
“The new election has also sent a strong reminder of the work to be done between women. A clear majority of the white female voters […] in the United States voted for Trump, despite his racism and misogyny.”
Gabriella Kinté, of Tout le Hood en Parle (“The whole hood’s talking about it”), a platform for the lived experiences of racialized people, echoed Zellars’ emphasis on examining local manifestations of oppression.
“We have a tendency to look at our neighbors, and forget what’s happening at home. Let us not close our eyes to inequality in the United States, nor to inequality in Quebec,” said Kinté, in French, to the crowd.
Kinté went on to say, “Yes, we must struggle together, but first we must unite, and to unite we must recognize that not all women are oppressed in the same way. For some, Trump’s words have been shocking, but for others, these words have simply openly revealed the nastiness they experience on a daily basis.”
As the crowd cheered, Kinté listed marginalized communities of women whose voices are often forgotten at high-profile rallies like this one: Indigenous women on reserves in Northern Quebec, women without status who are imprisoned in detention centers, women in working-class neighborhoods such as Parc Extension and Montreal-Nord.
“Let us be more inclusive,” Kinté urged her audience. “[These women] have much to teach us, […] we must listen to them.”
“We have so much work to do together, and we have never needed each other so much as in this very moment.”
Later in the rally, two masked representatives of the Montreal Collective of Women Without Status gave a bilingual address in Spanish and English.
“We, the undocumented women and mothers who live in the shadows, invisible, […] are coming forward to ask for support. […] The precarity in which we live because of our immigration status threatens our security, our freedom, our families, our children who are born here, live here, and who are terrorized by the threat of deportation,” they said.
“We are some of the most vulnerable and exploited people in society,” they continued. “We reject the [oppressive practices] of Canada’s immigration system, and demand to be accepted as human beings […] with equal dignity like everyone else.”
“Yes, we must struggle together, but first we must unite, and to unite we must recognize that not all women are oppressed in the same way. For some, Trump’s words have been shocking, but for others, these words have simply openly revealed the nastiness they experience on a daily basis.”
Meanwhile, in protest against Trump’s apparent history of harassment and assault of women, other speakers focused on the issue of gendered and sexual violence. Journalist Sue Montgomery, one of the creators of the hashtag #beenrapedneverreported, asked those who had experienced sexual assault – if they felt comfortable doing so – to raise their hands.
For a moment, those assembled looked around as hundreds of hands were raised. A few wiped away tears.
“It makes me so sad to see this,” said Montgomery. “One day, I would love to stand before you and ask the same question – raise your hands if you’ve been sexually assaulted. And I’d like to see not one hand raised.”
“We reject the [oppressive practices] of Canada’s immigration system, and demand to be accepted as human beings […] with equal dignity like everyone else.”
The rally at Place des Arts began and ended with words and music from Indigenous people, to honour the fact that the event – and the city of Montreal – was located on unceded Mohawk land, and in recognition of the disproportionate violence and discrimination faced by Canada’s Indigenous population.
The final speaker, a member of the collective Quebec Native Women, told the crowd that she had been sexually assaulted three times.
“I have a hard time finding the words,” she said, speaking in French, visibly emotional. “If I healed, […] I owe it to the women standing behind me, and in fact if I hadn’t had access to services culturally adapted for Indigenous people, I think I would not have survived. I’ve had enough. I’ve had enough of violence against Indigenous women. I’ve had enough of youth in our community throwing themselves off bridges – yes, children and teenagers kill themselves in our community every year.”
In a society that subjects women and Indigenous people to unspeakable discrimination and violence, she said, the women of her community had been instrumental in helping her and others like her to feel whole.
“One day, I would love to stand before you and ask the same question – raise your hands if you’ve been sexually assaulted. And I’d like to see not one hand raised.”
As the rally concluded with live music, and the crowd slowly dispersed, The Daily spoke with some of those who had attended. One couple, accompanied by their one-year-old son, explained why they came to the event.
“I think it’s important to teach him respect for rights and for equality [starting at] a very young age,” the child’s mother explained, “and I think we’re [witnessing] something that’s really not okay, and we should stand up against it. Particularly, I want to teach him to respect women. We already started teaching him about consent and stuff like that, and about the President of the United States being someone who doesn’t respect [women’s rights].”
“He doesn’t understand, but […] he’ll catch up someday,” added his father. “It’ll be deep-rooted within him.”
An earlier version of this article omitted to mention that the actual number of trans people murdered in 2016 was 237, not 98. The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Documentary screening and panel highlights Indigenous empowerment
In 2007, the First Nations Child and Family Caring Society of Canada (FNCFCS) and the Assembly of First Nations began a historic legal battle against the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development Canada, arguing that the welfare services available to Indigenous children on reserves were vastly – indeed, dangerously – inferior to those offered to other Canadian children.
After nine grueling years, during which the federal government attempted to delay and obstruct the complainants, the latter won their case. In her film “We Can’t Make the Same Mistake Twice,” Alanis Obomsawin documents the case in detail, bearing witness to the tireless work of the children’s rights advocates involved.
On Thursday January 18, the documentary was screened at Cinema du Parc for the McGill community. Cindy Blackstock, Executive Director of the FNCFCS and a professor in McGill’s School of Social Work, was in attendance, along with Obomsawin.
Blackstock is a central figure in “We Can’t Make the Same Mistake Twice.” In her role at FNCFCS, she was heavily involved in bringing the initial discrimination complaint, and gave extensive testimony throughout the case.
Blackstock opened Thursday’s screening with an indictment of the apathy and systemic racism that has devastated the lives of many Indigenous children on Canadian reserves. In particular, she mentioned the case of two twelve-year-old girls from the Wapekeka First Nation in Ontario, who committed suicide earlier this month.
“Throughout history, Canada has always known about the inequalities, known about the harms, and relied on the public to stop watching and not demand change,” said Blackstock. “My one request of you is that you don’t look away.”
Obomsawin also spoke, thanking the attendees for their presence.
“You’re about to see a very important story,” she said, “one that is, of course, very dear to me and to thousands of people.”
Obomsawin told the audience that in the course of her career as a documentary filmmaker on Indigenous issues, she had been present in many courtrooms, watching many Indigenous people receiving discriminatory treatment at the hands of the Canadian justice system. After a lifetime spent witnessing and being subjected to racial and colonial oppression, this case had brought her hope.
“The feeling in the courtrooms was so horrifying,” she said, “mainly because of the disrespect. And when I say disrespect, I mean everybody, including the judges and the lawyers. […] The feeling was, ‘we know all about you, you’re guilty, shut up, go to jail.’ And what I want to say, when I sat in the courtroom this time, at the tribunal of human rights, I watched the 72 witnesses that came to speak, and I saw our people be respected.”
The documentary itself follows the nine-year legal battle in great detail, showing extensive courtroom footage, supplemented by interviews with those participating in the case. The audience at Cinema du Parc seemed engrossed, with many gasping audibly during particularly harrowing portions of the film.
After the screening, a panel discussion was held. The panel featured four McGill students and was moderated by Allan Downey, a McGill professor specializing in Indigenous history.
One of the panelists, Amal Elsana Alh’jooj, a PhD candidate in McGill’s School of Social Work, noted the parallels between the systemic discrimination documented in Obomsawin’s film and the discrimination faced by Palestinians like herself, living in territory controlled by Israel.
“Canada has a reputation as a place where human rights are protected,” said Alh’jooj, “and we look at Canada as really an idol for these kinds of things.”
“So all of a sudden to come here,” she continued, “and discover that in the backyard of Canada, there is this catastrophe of many, many years, it’s kind of really shocking. And I think the role of social workers, community organizing, and all of us here is how to bring this case to the forefront – in the front yard of Canada, and to […] be brave enough to put these things on the table.”
“As someone who came from an Indigenous community in the south part of Israel, living many years in situations of discrimination, house demolition, evacuating in the name of the law, and advocating for my own people’s human rights, what this [film] is telling us is that all systems are very similar.”
Israeli officials, said Alh’jooj, routinely make the same arguments that the Canadian government used to attack and delegitimize Blackstock and her fellow activists. For this reason, the documentary resonated deeply with her.
Another panelist, Carlee Loft, a Kanien’keha:ka student majoring in psychology at McGill, spoke “not as someone who has gone through child welfare myself, but who has cared very deeply about someone who has, and who has seen them struggle, trying to connect back to their community, trying to find ties to their family.”
“What’s even harder is watching them struggle against this label that’s given to them, of a ‘problem child’ […] and this troubled Indigenous youth,” continued Loft. “This isn’t the same generation that went through residential schools, but they’re going through something very similar.”
Christian Quequish, a Saulteaux student currently serving as the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Indigenous Affairs Commissioner, spoke about the challenges of effective allyship and the pitfalls of reconciliation.
“I guess what really struck me [about the film] was non-Indigenous children […] supporting Indigenous children,” he began. “It’s incredibly symbolic – it’s not something that I grew up with, but it’s good to see that that’s a trend that’s happening. […] I think for us older folks there needs to be a recognition that the relationships between Indigenous peoples has been historically imbalanced, and that discriminatory policies sustain this imbalance.”
“The way allies approach Indigenous peoples’ issues sometimes reinforces that balance to the point where it’s more about feeling good about themselves than actual empowerment of Indigenous people,” he continued. “So in approaching better relations between the two groups, it seems as if it’s time to start privileging Indigenous voices. […] Empowerment should come first, and symbolic acts should follow.”
A previous version of this article omitted to include Christian Quequish’s preferred Indigenous identifier (Saulteaux). The Daily regrets the error. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Panel discusses successes and challenges of Akwesasne court
On Monday January 16, several dozen people gathered at New Chancellor Day Hall to hear a presentation by three administrators of the Mohawk Council of Akwesasne, Canada’s first independent Indigenous court, about the structure and nature of the court.
Panelists included Kyrie Ransom, justice coordinator at the court, Bonnie Cole, prosecutor and legal council, and Gilbert Terrence, a court administrator. The presentation was followed by a discussion period moderated by Kirsten Anker, a professor at McGill’s Faculty of Law who specializes in property and Aboriginal peoples and the law.
The Mohawk community of Akwesasne straddles the St. Lawrence River at the intersection of the Quebec-Ontario and Canada-United States borders. As such, its residents have had to contend with even greater challenges to their sovereignty than many other Indigenous nations in North America. Until the mid-1990s, judges at the Akwesasne Court were external officials appointed by the federal government under the Indian Act of 1876.
When this process was abandoned, it was expected that Indigenous communities would transfer to the jurisdiction of the provinces in which they were located. For Akwesasne, this would have meant adjusting to two different provincial systems. Instead, the community appointed its own justices, and set about the process of codifying their legal and cultural traditions into a body of law that would be faithful to the values of Akwesasne’s people, and make sense to external authorities.
This process was made all the more complicated by the difficulty of translating key concepts from the Mohawk language into English: Ransom explained to the audience that the original Mohawk term for “justice” literally meant the fall of a gavel.
“The connotation was very negative,” she said, so the lawmakers of Akwesasne consulted linguistic experts in order to develop a new, more positive term. In the end, they came up with a word better suited to the legislators’ project. Roughly translated, it means ‘those who uphold the law.’
This process was made all the more complicated by the difficulty of translating key concepts from the Mohawk language into English: Ransom explained to the audience that the original Mohawk term for “justice” literally meant the fall of a gavel.
While some carefully considered updates to traditional terminology were made, the overriding imperative of Akwesasne’s legislators was respecting the community’s cultural and legal practices, and grounding their work in collective history.
Finally, after roughly two decades of work, the project was complete: Akwesasne’s groundbreaking legal system was officially voted into law by local authorities last summer.
While many other Indigenous communities have their own courts, Akwesasne is the first in Canada to have constructed its own system without, as it were, permission from the government.
“Basically, our court has jurisdiction over all matters on Akwesasne lands,” explained Cole. While the court does not yet handle more serious infractions, such as murder and assault, the legislators hope to expand their jurisdiction in this regard.
“We structured the court to meet the needs of the community,” Cole said. “It’s a restorative justice approach, looking at restoration, rehabilitation, restitution – all of those concepts. […] We look at the person, and not necessarily just the offense. So when we’re dealing with people, we’ll be looking at who he or she is, what are their skills, what are their gifts, and how will that be used and incorporated into restoring balance, not only to that person, but to the community.”
While the court does not yet handle more serious infractions, such as murder and assault, the legislators hope to expand their jurisdiction in this regard.
This ethos, said Cole, has fostered an environment that is more flexible and less adversarial than the mainstream Canadian legal system.
Notably, she explained, “We don’t do jail, we don’t intend to do that. It’s not for us. We know that the system is failing, right?”
According to the Office of the Correctional Investigator, nearly a quarter of Canada’s imprisoned population is composed of Indigenous people, while this demographic only represents four per cent of the general population.
Disproportionate incarceration and police brutality is simply one facet of the systemic oppression faced by Indigenous Canadians. Rather than send more marginalized citizens to prison for relatively minor offenses, the Akwesasne court resorts to more constructive penalties.
“We don’t do jail, we don’t intend to do that. It’s not for us. We know that the system is failing, right?”
In accordance with the principle of restorative justice, those convicted are often required to perform community service – painting walls or coaching soccer, while perhaps attending therapy sessions, or undergoing treatment for substance abuse.
According to Terrence, the system is working: out of 63 cases in the restorative justice program so far, sixty have been successful.
However, in Cole’s words, the court is still very much “a work in progress.” It is in serious need of more legislators to continue refining the legal system and enable the understaffed establishment to work more efficiently.
The panelists at Monday’s event extended an invitation to the McGill law students at the panel to come work at Akwesasne, and judging by the enthusiasm of the audience, they may very well be in luck.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Councillors send Legal Information Clinic question to referendum
On Wednesday January 18, the Post-Graduates Students Society (PGSS) Council met for its monthly meeting.
Councilors heard an announcement regarding the Anthropology Graduate Student Association (AGSA)’s resolution to support the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement, concerns regarding transparency, a motion to bring a question regarding a fee increase for the Legal Information Clinic at McGill (LICM) to referendum, and a motion regarding a fee waiver which was tabled.
Alex Magdzinski, president of the Nursing Graduate Student Association (NGSA), questioned the fees charged for room bookings in the Thompson House, and the lack of transparency surrounding said fees.
According to Magdzinski, it is not clear how fees for room bookings in the Thompson House are calculated. Magdzinski looked into previous documents of contracts to calculate the cost of room bookings in previous years, and alleged that the NGSA is being overcharged for certain room bookings.
“I know there was one thing taken out in the budget last year,” Magdzinski explained. “[When] we used to book rooms in the Thompson House, if you bought drinks or food or what not, your booking fee was reduced.”
“Maybe it’s $100 more, $60 more for an event, but for PGSAs [Post-Graduate Student Associations] that don’t have a huge budget, it’s money that we’re taking away from […] student initiatives,” he elaborated. “Generally just […] the quality of our services that we provide is impacted, and I’m just trying to see bigger term how much the PGSS is actually spending to keep Thompson House in the black.”
PGSS Internal Affairs Officer Mina Anadolu offered some context regarding the increased fees for room bookings. She noted that when groups book certain rooms, they pay for staffing the space and the cleanup.
“Maybe it’s $100 more, $60 more for an event, but for PGSAs [Post-Graduate Student Associations] that don’t have a huge budget, it’s money that we’re taking away from […] student initiatives.”
But Anadolu added that she “understand[s] the argument that it’s kind of counterproductive to charge PGSAs or ourselves room booking fees.”
She suggested that Magdzinski contact the Board of Directors regarding this issue, as the Board made decisions regarding fees last year based on the results of a survey on Thompson House sent to PGSS members. This included the removal of the cost recovery program, where if groups bought drinks and foods, the room booking fee was reduced.
“All of those executive decisions were made by the Board and based on the survey, so they may be able to give you more clear rationale as to why those changes occurred and about the minimum charges that we need to upkeep the place,” she said.
PGSS Health Commissioner Andrew Dixon brought up the issue of transparency: “I think what’s really required here is that we sit down with the business [Thompson House] and we just hash out the details of how much it’s going to cost and why. Once we have that list we can start to negotiate whether it’s an appropriate fee.”
“All of those executive decisions were made by the Board and based on the survey, so they may be able to give you more clear rationale as to why those changes occurred and about the minimum charges that we need to upkeep the place.”
Councilors also voted on a motion regarding sending a question to referendum that dealt with the Legal Information Clinic at McGill.
The referendum question asks to increase the non-opt-outable fee for the LICM from $2.00 to $4.50 per student per semester, excluding summer terms, starting in Fall 2017.
Sunny Yang, Director of Communications at LICM, and Sean Pierce, LICM’s Director of Student Advocacy and University Affairs, spoke to Council about the motion.
The LICM, Yang explained, “started in 1973 and since then we’ve always been here for students; it’s always been a student-run service that offers free and bilingual legal information as well as advice.” More specifically, the LICM serves both McGill students and members of the community.
Mathew, a student in the Neuroscience Graduate program noted, “There’s 40,000 students at McGill, you guys get fees from undergraduate and graduate students. […] That means about 40,000 people are giving you $180,000 in fees. Could you explain where that money’s going and why you think you need that much?”
Yang explained that the LICM incurs costs from renting offices in the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) building, and pays directors to work at the LICM in the summer.
“We have more volunteers that want to volunteer at the Legal Information Clinic than we have the space for, and that means […] we have resources at our disposal that could help us reduce wait times that we’re not able to leverage,” Pierce added.
“Could you explain where that money’s going and why you think you need that much?”
These wait times are substantial. “We try to provide about a one week turnaround time between then they call in and when they receive their answer,” Yang explained. “The problem is questions grow stale. So at some point, if we have too many questions and not enough students ready to answer those questions, we have to do what’s called ‘closing the lines’.”
“We tell students that at this point, by the time we get to their question, resolve their issue, it might actually be too late for them. […] That’s not ideal,” he added.
The increased fee would allow the LICM to rent more office space, and thus have more volunteers and reduce their wait time, they argued.
The motion was passed, with two opposed.
“We tell students that at this point, by the time we get to their question, resolve their issue, it might actually be too late for them. […] That’s not ideal.”
Councilors also heard a motion regarding the Legal Information Clinic at McGill’s request to waive the $200 fee applied to all external groups who want to conduct their referendum through PGSS. This motion was tabled, however, because it had not yet gone to a second reading, as required by PGSS bylaws.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
On January 12, the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) released a video on their Facebook page, showing AMUSE President Claire Michela interrupting the breakfast meeting of the Human Resources subcommittee of the McGill Board of Governors.
She denounced the University’s decision to renege on an agreement with AMUSE’s bargaining team regarding Floor Fellow negotiations: the agreement had been reached through the use of an independent arbiter last December. Among other features, it stipulated salaries for Floor Fellows in McGill residences.
In an email to The Daily, Michela confirmed that the University rescinded the agreement, adding that “the University’s decision to renege on a previous agreement is something that’s never happened before. It is considered extremely serious in labour law to go back on a previous agreement, big or small.”
“The fact that the University backed out was delivered to us as information that the article on salaries had been rejected, unfortunately without justification,” she elaborated.
Robert Comeau, McGill’s Director of Labour and Employee Relations, told The Daily in an email that an agreement was reached in the last meeting with the arbitrator, “conditional on McGill’s ratification.”
“The arbitrator asked that McGill review the tentative agreement and come back with their decision before she would render her own decision,” he continued.
As the University vetoed the agreement, Comeau said both the University and AMUSE will begin new negotiations through the arbitrator.
According to Michela, AMUSE’s parent union, the Public Service Alliance of Canada (PSAC) has hired legal counsel since the subcommittee’s decision to veto the agreement.
Despite the setback, communication between AMUSE and the University is taking place through “several lines of communication,” in Michela’s words.
“Some have been through [PSAC] to the University directly,” she elaborated. “We are also working on getting arbitration dates as soon as possible with the arbitrator.”
According to Comeau, the arbitrator has scheduled hearings for February 6; however, “it is too early to say when [a collective agreement] will occur.”
When asked whether AMUSE will bring any charges against the University, Michela responded that “we are evaluating all options in addition to arbitration.”
Many Floor Fellows are disappointed with the University’s decision to veto the agreement.
Michela said that she has heard from both past and current Floor Fellows, who “feel frustrated about what has happened, but [feel] supported by what AMUSE is doing in response.”
In a statement to The Daily, Isabelle Oke, Floor Fellows Vice President and representative for AMUSE, added that “the reactions I’ve gotten have been a lot of disappointment but not overwhelming surprise; this latest move by McGill is inconsiderate of the time and work we put into this job, but it also isn’t uncharacteristic behaviour.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Federal Minister of Families, Children and Social Development takes questions
On Monday, January 16, Liberal McGill hosted a question and answer session with Jean Yves Duclos, Federal Minister of Families, Children and Social Development.
Duclos answered questions on topics ranging from the federal government’s National Housing Strategy, homelessness, First Peoples issues, mortgages, and urban housing, all of which fall under his portfolio.
One attendee, Jesse, reminded Duclos that in a country like Canada, the cost of living varies a great deal between urban areas like Vancouver and Toronto, and certain regions like rural Alberta and Ontario.
“What is the government doing to […] compensate for that difference?” he asked. “In Vancouver, the living wage […] is $25. There are massive discrepancies, so I think there is a middle class that now can have a $100,000 dollar income, and still not be able to afford a home in Vancouver.”
“The housing needs and the housing circumstances of Canadians vary quite a lot,” responded Duclos. “This being said, not all Canadian regions display this wide range of housing conditions, and it’s true that in Toronto and Vancouver in particular […], the regions where both the cost of housing is high and rising, those communities present specific challenges.”
“In Vancouver, the living wage […] is $25. There are massive discrepancies, so I think there is a middle class that now can have a $100,000 dollar income, and still not be able to afford a home in Vancouver.”
“Unfortunately, despite the tools that the Canadian government can use, through the CMHC, Canadian Mortgage Housing Corporation, in particular, through regulations, through housing insurance, and mortgages […] it’s very difficult to address the localized tensions [that] these communities face.”
As a result, municipalities are best equipped to address these issues, Duclos said, stressing municipal planning, development of public transportation, and economic and demographic growth as key issues to address in supporting middle-class Canadians.
Another attendee, Meghan, asked, “What is the government doing to invest in the prevention of youth homelessness?”
“Unfortunately, despite the tools that the Canadian government can use, through the CMHC, Canadian Mortgage Housing Corporation, in particular, through regulations, through housing insurance, and mortgages […] it’s very difficult to address the localized tensions [that] these communities face.”
Duclos stressed the importance of fighting homelessness at the local level, using the example of Montreal as a city where a number of organizations have an ability at the local level “to understand how to protect the youth against homelessness, and to look at the problem in a broad manner.”
Duclos also highlighted that addressing youth homelessness doesn’t solely revolve around housing concerns.
“What is the government doing to invest in the prevention of youth homelessness?”
“You need to provide [homeless youth] with physical safety, mental health, physical health, and then you can start to develop a relationship, build emotional capital that we need to interact with the homeless youth, provide them with hope,” he said.
“Hope is critical in assisting homeless youth,” he continued, “and then slowly, with confidence and appropriate support, to develop the other dimensions of their life, such as training […] the ability to participate in […] the labour force, and slowly to develop their social and other forms of capital.”
Duclos clarified that the best way the federal government can assist localized homelessness initiatives was through adequate resource support.
“Hope is critical in assisting homeless youth.”
“Last March, the federal government announced for the first time in seventeen years an increase in funding to fight homelessness across Canada,” he told attendees. “A fifteen per cent increase, which is making a big difference across Canada […], but what is even more important is the ability of organizations and communities to make the best use of these additional resources in pushing ahead their assistance to homeless populations.”
Another attendee asked what the federal government was doing to address “Northern housing crises in Nunavut and northern Quebec.”
“There are two elements to that,” answered Duclos. “The first is the obvious greater needs and greater costs associated to housing in the North, which has to be acknowledged: again, in last March’s budget, transfers to the Territories and northern communities were adjusted to [reflect] greater need and greater costs.”
“The second thing is the fact that in Northern communities, we find in greater numbers, Indigenous families and communities, and there is an opportunity in re-engaging the federal government in assisting the housing need of Indigenous families,” continued Duclos. “The nation-to-nation agenda is ‘Can we in part implement it through strong active and respectful relationships with Indigenous organizations and governments?’”
“Are there any plans to specifically address the overrepresentation of Indigenous peoples within homeless communities?” asked an attendee.
“The nation-to-nation agenda is ‘Can we in part implement it through strong active and respectful relationships with Indigenous organizations and governments?’”
“It is such a dire state of affairs,” responded Duclos, “including here in Montreal, but even more so in Western Canada to recognize this failure […] of building a proper relationship between the federal government, and other governments, and Indigenous communities, [which] has led to all sorts of evils, including that of many homeless Indigenous peoples in cities across Canada.”
“Building that relationship is, among other things, through supporting housing ambitions of our Indigenous families through resources, but also equally importantly through appropriate relationships,” he went on. “It’s not just money that matters, it’s also the ability of Indigenous governments and communities to feel and be empowered when it comes to aiding them.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
More needs to be done to address sexual assault 
Content warning: Rape, sexual assault
Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) is a self-defense class offered through McGill Security Services. The class is “for women,” and consists of two sessions, held on two different days.
“The first part is […] a two hour theory portion, which covers all the risky situations.. […] We talk about risk reduction, risk awareness, risk avoidance, risk recognition […] and then we go to technical, which is, of course, punches, kicks, finger rolls, all of that,” Alexandra Gregorian, Investigations and Community Relations Supervisor at McGill and RAD instructor, said in an interview with The Daily.
The RAD self defense class costs twenty dollars and comes with a manual which provides suggestions on how to prevent risk and enhance personal safety.
The program, which has been running at McGill since at least 2013, but is also offered at other North American universities, has faced criticism in the past. A Jezebel article from 2015 took a look into the manual that accompanies the classes.
According to the article, the manual is full of overly specific instructions for women, and “encapsulates the stone-age approach to sexual assault prevention that too many institutions in the U.S. still consider the gold standard: fear-based, authoritarian, and preoccupied with minutiae.”
The manual suggests: “Try ‘casing’ your own home, at night and/or during the day. Attempt to gain access when locked and ‘secure.’ If possible, invite a security survey from your local Police Department.”
“None of this is exactly bad advice,” the Jezebel article reads. “Doing these things won’t make you any less safe, although doing all of them (there are six full pages of Risk Reduction Strategies) might make you kind of paranoid.”
When asked about the manual and its role in the RAD classes at McGill, Gregorian responded, “[In the manual] what they do is they talk about risk awareness […]. Some of it is dated, [however] it really is about securing the home so there are no dark areas or things like that.”
“Doing these things won’t make you any less safe, although doing all of them (there are six full pages of Risk Reduction Strategies) might make you kind of paranoid.”
Paniz Khosroshahy,* founder of the McGill chapter of Silence is Violence, responded to criticisms of RAD by relating it to a more universal problem.
“If we want to critique RAD, we need to critique all education strategies on campus that address sexual assault because at the end of the day they are all used by the University to avoid responsibility for actual occurrences of sexual assault on campus and supporting survivors,” she wrote in an email to The Daily.
“It’s in the interest of the University to keep its students happy by saying ‘look we have these education initiatives for you,’ to detract attention from the fact that consent education may not work and that the University’s sexual assault policy doesn’t really focus on placing sanctions on perpetrators,” Khosroshahy concluded.
In a phone interview with The Daily, Bianca Tétrault, McGill’s Liaison Officer (Harm Reduction), who has worked on developing consent education, voiced her concerns and emphasized that RAD is not a total solution to the problem of sexual assault on campus.
“It’s in the interest of the University to keep its students happy by saying ‘look we have these education initiatives for you,’ to detract attention from the fact that consent education may not work and that the University’s sexual assault policy doesn’t really focus on placing sanctions on perpetrators.”
“I do have my concerns when it comes to self-defense focused courses. I think that it’s a very, very fine line that instructors walk, because we know the realities around the misconceptions of sexual violence, the stigmas and the internalization of the shame and blame,” she said. “It can’t be a stand alone solution or offering.”
“It is unfortunate that we have to put the onus on women for them to change their behavior because they’re not the problem,” Gregorian also noted. “But I feel that it’s our responsibility to make sure that we do provide a self defense class in the meantime, until there is a culture change.”
Tétrault took the class a few years ago and spoke of the positive impact it had on her and her fellow participants: “What was […] impressive was actually watching the participants in the workshop […]. When we provide education, there needs to be components for everybody. We may not all agree on approaches, but we can’t say ‘just because I don’t believe in self-defense classes you shouldn’t either.’”
Gregorian agreed, emphasizing that she believes women come out of these classes feeling empowered.
“It is unfortunate that we have to put the onus on women for them to change their behavior because they’re not the problem.”
Both women emphasized the need for diversity in the solution to sexual violence, as well as recognition of the fact that everybody has a different way of feeling safe.
Gregorian spoke of a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, involving nine hundred women over a four year period across Canadian campuses, including the University of Calgary, Guelph, and Windsor.
“Half of those women were provided with the self defense course and half of them weren’t. What they’ve noticed in the study is that rape dropped by nearly fifty per cent. So these programs do work,” Gregorian said.
When asked if RAD talks about recognizing dangerous and unhealthy relationships that could lead to sexual assault, Gregorian responded, “We don’t cover that specifically, but […] the theory [part of the class] is a safe space and we let [the participants] know it is a safe space.”
“I think the bigger conversation we need to have is who is responsible for preventing violence? Where does the responsibility lie?,” Tétrault also said. “Oftentimes the reality is that people freeze, and that’s okay, and that’s a survival mechanism […] We have to keep talking about that.”
*Paniz Khosroshahy is a staff writer for The Daily.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
