The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SSMU fails to endorse free press for first time in 30 years
On the evening of November 2, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) Legislative Council convened in the Lev Bukhman room of the Shatner Building.
Council began with a presentation by SSMU VP External Connor Spencer. Spencer gave an overview of Our Turn, a nationwide movement against sexual violence on university campuses. Our Turn’s National Action Plan provides a framework for prevention, support, and advocacy. 
Spencer stressed the report’s strengths, saying it details “what you should look for within your own policy, and what you should make sure it doesn’t have…. It gives [student unions] something very concrete to start working with their admin on, rather than just going in blind.”
After announcements and a brief question period, two previously submitted motions, the Motion to Create an Ad Hoc Committee on Provincial Representation and the Motion Calling for an Immediate Contestation of Bill 62, both passed. The first mandates the creation of an ad hoc committee to report regularly to Legislative Council on the activities of two province-wide student unions, the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec (AVEQ) and the Student Union of Quebec (UEQ). The second motion commits SSMU to take a stand and actively campaign against Bill 62, a recent piece of Quebec legislation widely decried as Islamophobic. After a brief discussion and several amendments, the motion passed unanimously.
Several motions were submitted from the floor for voting and discussion. The most contentious motion of the night called for SSMU to endorse the Daily Publications Society (DPS) in its upcoming existence referendum. The DPS is the umbrella organization that publishes The McGill Daily and Le Délit. After a lengthy debate the motion failed with ten representatives in favour, twelve opposed, and two abstentions. 
Motion concerning Daily Publications Society
Vocal opposition to the motion centered around two main sources of debate. A member of the audience asked if it was a conflict of interest to seek “an endorsement from the organization which campus media is supposed to be critiquing and actively working to hold accountable.” Councillors reiterated this point throughout the debate. Spencer responded, saying, “I think it’s really important that we as an institution support those that are holding us accountable. I would be very wary about not endorsing someone who has been heavily critical of SSMU.”
Indeed, it is not considered a conflict of interest when government institutions support the continued existence of the free press. In fact, supporting journalism has long been a hallmark of democracy in Canada, Quebec, and even within SSMU itself. SSMU has voiced their support for the DPS during their referendums for the past 30 years, consistently endorsing the continued existence of The Daily and Le Délit.
The Daily’s political stances were the second main discussion point, as councillors reiterated their opposition to institutional support of The Daily’s editorial line, best described by The Daily’s anti-oppressive Statement of Principles. 
President Muna Tojiboeva, who has described The Daily as operating under “the sole purpose of discrediting [her] character,” voiced her concerns: “Seeing that this is a student referendum, we should let the students make their own individual decisions. […] We shouldn’t endorse a paper that marginalizes certain voices on campus.”
Tojiboeva did not clarify which voices The Daily allegedly marginalizes. In fact, The Daily is the only paper on campus that has an explicit mandate to give a platform to communities that have been marginalized “on the basis of gender, age, social class, race, sexuality, religion, ability, and cultural identity.” 
Councillors argued that constituents should not have to fund campus newspapers if they do not agree with the views those publications express; one councillor argued that he didn’t want to support the motion because he disagrees with the paper’s editorial line, in particular, The Daily’s support for pro-Palestinian movements on campus. 
In response, DPS representative and former Daily editor Xavier Richer Vis countered that SSMU has endorsed the DPS for the past 30 years, not on the premise of agreeing with everything they publish, but in support of the free press. As Matthew Savage, the Social Work Representative, put it, “We live in a society right now that continuously takes away the rights of our press, and I for one am for anything that this student union is going to do to make sure that we have as many different views as possible.”
During the debate, Arts and Science Representative R’ay Fodor repeatedly criticized The Daily for an alleged lack of journalistic integrity. He argued that since The Daily’s journalists voted in the past SSMU General Assembly (GA), which they were there to report on, the paper lacked integrity. 
In fact, reporters from Le Délit and the McGill Tribune also voted in the GA. Fodor noted that Bull & Bear staff did not vote, stating, “there is a standard being held somewhere.” Fodor went on to applaud the Bull & Bear for their funding mechanism; Bull & Bear editor Molly Harris detailed the paper’s reliance on corporate funding to operate. Fodor also asked if it were “possible to fund Le Délit on its own.” This called into question whether the issue of voting in the GA was his true concern. In response to the tone of these questions, councillor Savage reminded the room that “it’s important for us to remain respectful when addressing each other.”
While most of the discussion centred around The Daily, some councillors did mention Le Délit. One councillor said, “especially when Le Délit is the only francophone newspaper on this campus, we really need to understand that if the DPS does not exist, there’s already a minority voice that’s not going to be heard.”
Other business
Council discussed a motion to put forward a special referendum on student-submitted changes to SSMU’s constitution. These proposed changes would then be sent to the BoD for approval, after which they would be sent to the Judicial Board for review. Before the discussion, Tojiboeva and Spencer read aloud an email correspondence between legal counsel and a mover of the motions respectively. Spencer clarified that although the motion came from different movers, the proposed changes were submitted in the same document. If separate, every possible combination would need to be submitted to the Judicial Board for review. President Tojiboeva added that per Article 91 of the Quebec Companies Act, constitutional amendments had to be approved by the BoD before proceeding to the membership.
The meeting wrapped up with reports from the Executive and Steering Committees, as well as reports from several councillors and the SSMU Executive.

[Ed. note: This article was amended on November 10 to clarify that Article 91 pertained to the Companies Act in Quebec law.]
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Joint statement criticises the tenure and honouring of Heather Munroe-Blum
On October 31, former Principal and Vice-Chancellor of McGill, Heather Munroe-Blum, was awarded an honorary doctorate at the University’s fall 2017 convocation ceremony. Munroe-Blum was the 16th Principal of McGill, in office from 2003-2013. She was the first woman to fill the position, preceding current Principal Suzanne Fortier. 
The University announced Munroe-Blum’s honorary doctorate award in early October, praising her dedication to “accessibility and innovation in higher education for all” and to “breaking down the barriers to learning.” However, on-campus labour unions and SSMU have since expressed their disapproval and opposition to this decision. In a statement released to the press on Friday, co-signatories, the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA), the McGill Course Lecturers and Instructors Union (MCLIU), and SSMU argue that Munroe-Blum’s actions during her tenure “created rifts in McGill’s social and academic fibre that have yet to heal.” 
The University’s press release regarding Munroe-Blum’s honorary doctorate described her as “a vocal champion for education accessibility, and increasing financial support for students, academics and research.” In contrast to this assertion, the union’s statement points out the ways in which Munroe-Blum facilitated an increase in pay and benefits to managers and administrative executives, while students and staff on campus were left in financially precarious positions. 
During her time as Principal, Munroe-Blum made a $369,000 base salary and earned additional “contract benefits” ranging from $128,000 to $226,000. Now, despite no longer teaching or working at the University, Munroe-Blum has access to a supplementary pension of $284,000 annually, in addition to the $87,000 she receives as part of her regular pension from McGill and the University of Toronto. These funds are paid for in part by the university’s students and employees. 
“One of the reasons that the Unions and I are working together on this is the fact that, as I was mentioning before, they mobilise very specific language to champion her work, but that directly contradicts the lived history of what happened,” said SSMU VP External Connor Spencer in an interview on CKUT. “[This language] is not reflective of the true story and history of her work on campus. To just present a very un-nuanced, very basic overview of her work on campus, which ignores a lot of how it affected students and labour unions, is really troubling.”
“[This language] is not reflective of the true story and history of her work on campus. To just present a very un-nuanced, very basic overview of her work on campus, which ignores a lot of how it affected students and labour unions, is really troubling.”
In tandem with the increases in executive salaries and benefits, and, according to the union’s statement, a drastic increase in the number of managers and executives in the McGill administration, students and staff on campus saw cuts to the resources available to them. The union’s statement reads, “Dr. Munroe-Blum led efforts to cut $2 million from staff benefits. This was followed by a massive claw-back of front-line, education, and student support salaries worth tens of millions of dollars when it was decided that employees would bear the brunt of shortfalls in the University’s pension plan.” 
The union’s statement acknowledges that Munroe-Blum was proficient in her work as a fundraiser for the University, but goes on to criticise the lack of scrutiny directed at the spending of these funds by the University itself. 
“McGill was put on probation by the three principal federal granting agencies because of inadequate financial oversight and processes. McGill’s residency programs were put on probation, as well, notably because of insufficient resources for residents, the very students the programs were established to educate.”
While course lecturers, students, and casual employees made wages below the national standard during Munroe-Blum’s tenure, her impact shaped the experiences of all students on campus, not only those working McGill jobs. 
“The truth of the matter is, she actively advocated for tuition hikes, therefore affecting the actual accessibility of education,” Spencer says. “Also, she’s the reason that riot cops were called onto campus in November of 2011…[during] a peaceful protest. In general, a lot of the change in policy around how protest is allowed on campus was under her as well.” 
“The truth of the matter is, she actively advocated for tuition hikes, therefore affecting the actual accessibility of education.”
“It’s really frustrating, and it feels a little insensitive – it’s only been a few years since she’s left, we’re still kind of reeling from the implications that her term had on campus, it seems really insensitive to be applauding her when the lived reality of her term is still a very real thing felt by all of our members,” Spencer concludes.
This frustration was echoed by MUNACA Labour Relations officer David Roseman. “It’s pretty difficult for people who’ve worked at McGill during [her tenure] to not have a visceral reaction to the announcement [of her award].  It makes it extremely difficult, when one is supposed to be celebrating somebody… it’s not really compatible with discussing, in a critical way, that person’s career or their actions.” 
 “It’s pretty difficult for people who’ve worked at McGill during [her tenure] to not have a visceral reaction to the announcement [of her award].”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
North Korean activists must be empowered, not victimized
On October 28, McGill Students for Hanvoice hosted a panel called “What would you ask a North Korean.” The panel was attended by over 200 people, and featured Ellie Cha, a human rights advocate who left North Korea with her family in 2012. McGill Students for HanVoice is a non-profit grassroots organization created to raise awareness on the North Korean humanitarian crisis. The event was part of the HanVoice Pioneers Project (HPP), an initiative which aims to empower North Korean activists to lead the North Korean human rights movement. The event included an introduction by Dr. Juan Wang of the McGill Political Science department. Later, Cha shared a testimony on her life experiences followed by a Q&A session with the participants.
Danny Yeo, the president of HanVoice Ottawa, spoke on the challenges resettlement poses to many North Koreans, specifically, the difficulty of working around the immigration regulations of surrounding countries.
“When North Korean refugees […] defect from North Korea, their goal is to get to Thailand. […] It’s known as a safe haven, and more than 90 per cent of refugees end up there,” said Yeo, “In China, if they get caught, they will be deported back to North Korea.”
Thailand has become a popular transit destination for North Korean resettlement. In the first six months of 2016 alone, 385 North Koreans entered Thailand. While the Royal Thai Government (RTG) does not recognize North Koreans’ refugee status, they permit illegal entry.
Throughout the migration process, refugees face the risk of deportation back to North Korea. The North Korean government considers unauthorized departure a criminal offense, meaning that returning to North Korea leads to prosecution. Many choose to cross the eastern border out of the country, using a paid broker for travel arrangements. This route involves travelling through China, where North Korean refugees are considered economic migrants instead of asylum seekers.
Yeo explained that North Korean citizens face limited options after leaving the country. “Another problem is that when they arrive [in] Thailand, they only have two options; South Korea [or] the US,” said Yeo. “Currently, the US is not the best place to go, because of the […] administration. […] The process is very long, whereas South Korea is very quick.”
Under the South Korean Constitution, all North Koreans are recognized as South Korean citizens. Even so, North Koreans in South Korea face marginalization and other barriers in resettlement.
“In South Korea, there is another problem. […] There is a lot of discrimination against the refugees.” said Yeo. “Most North Korean refugees […] come as single mothers, meaning that […] they themselves struggle to get by. […] Even at home, […] North Korean children do not receive [adequate] attention and help. Even the education system is very competitive.”
Yeo told the audience that HanVoice has been in talks with the Canadian federal government about establishing a program that would allow Canadians to sponsor North Korean refugees.
“We wanted to create an opportunity for these North Korean refugees to come over to Canada. [We] not only have a strong Korean-Canadian community, […] but I’d like to believe that Canada will take care of people who are displaced.”
Canada has historically shown favorable policies towards North Korean refugees, with a 90 per cent acceptance rate in 2011 and 2012. However, the Immigration Refugee Board of Canada (IRB) began rejecting applications in 2013 and 2014, citing that South Korean citizenship is guaranteed to North Koreans by default. In 2014, only one out of the 327 refugee claims was accepted.
“We wanted to create an opportunity for these North Korean refugees to come over to Canada. […] I’d like to believe that Canada will take care of people who are displaced.”
“Today I am here to share my story as a North Korean refugee,” said Cha. “I remember my first visit to Pyongyang. I remember the busy men and women rushing down the streets to ride shiny new buses to work. […] Young children playing by the grass. But, most of all: I remember my father. I remember walking up the steps of his university holding his hand. I remember his sharp suit, a uniform worn only by the very best in the country.”
Cha’s father was a high-ranking official before falling out of favour with the North Korean government. He was subsequently dismissed from his position as the vice president of a large mining company. The family’s socioeconomic situation deteriorated after this, and they decided to leave North Korea and seek asylum in South Korea.
“We would no longer be cared for in a way we were for the past eight years. […] In North Korea, our family had no future anymore, especially for me and my brother.”
The family initially planned to travel to the South Korean embassy and request asylum in Vietnam. However, the family was found by Vietnam authorities and detained, then sent to the Chinese Border. After five failed attempts to enter Vietnam from China, the family decided to enter South Korea through Thailand, where they met South Korean embassy officers. During this process, Cha was separated from her family for several days, during which her mother suffered a high fever and malaria.
“From North Korea into China, to Vietnam, to Laos to Thailand, and into South Korea. The world felt big. But, I’m here to tell you — still, there’s no space for me and my family. As a refugee, my journey continues. We’re still searching for [a] home. It is only last year that my family finally had the time to reflect and talk. Not as refugees trying to survive, but [as] people, a family, trying to move forward.”
“It is only last year that my family finally had the time to reflect and talk. Not as refugees trying to survive, but [as] people, a family, trying to move forward.”
When asked what motivated her to pursue advocacy work, Cha recalled meeting others who “did not know that their [refugee] life was not normal.”
Such experiences led Cha to promote human rights for North Korean refugees. “From these experiences I [have], and heard, I couldn’t shut my eyes from [these] people who will have the same experiences as I did. […] Personally, I am not an extrovert, I am an introvert and don’t like doing public speaking. […] But if I don’t do this, if we don’t do this because we don’t like it, who can do it? That’s why I decided to do advocacy.” Cha is currently pursuing a media communications degree at Seoul University in South Korea. She worked as an intern in the office of Senator Yonah Martin, and has spoken in multiple universities about her experience.
Cha emphasized the importance of empowering North Korean activists as the leaders of their own movement, “North Korean refugees […] can act as a bridge, and as a main voice […] [representing] North Korea. […] When people just see us as victims and media or organizations paint us as victims, they can get more attention, but that’s it. We cannot see any changes. […] but when you see them as a powerful potential, North Korean refugees can [assume] an important role as agents of change, said Cha.
“North Korean refugees […] can act as a bridge, and as a main voice [representing] North Korea.”
“Only five years ago, I was just a victim by regime. Even when I first arrived to South Korea, I considered myself as a victim because people looked [at] and treated us as victims. But there [were] some people who supported, encouraged me. […] I [was] empowered to become an agent of changes and to help my homeland. […] It is not because I have a special ability, I am just one of [the] 23 million North Koreans. So, if I can do this, my family, my friends can do this, and all […] 23 million people in North Korea can do [the] same things to make North Korea’s change. […] And I believe that change starts in a small step.”
Cha concluded her testimony with a reminder of shared humanity. “I believe that I will end my journey in a free North Korea. […] I don’t want you to feel sorry or pity hearing my stories. My story is not one of weakness. My story is one of great strength. It’s one of great power; the power of parents’ sacrifice for their family. The power that resides in our shared humanity, […] including North Koreans, this humanity gives us the same chance to live.”
“My story is one of great strength. It’s one of great power; the power of parents’ sacrifice for their family. The power that resides in our shared humanity, […] including North Koreans, this humanity gives us the same chance to live.”
An earlier version of this article incorrectly mentioned that more than 9 per cent of North Korean refugees end up in Thailand, when in fact, more than 90 per cent of North Korean refugees end up in Thailand. The Daily regrets the error. 
Editor’s note: Some quotes have been modified in consultation with the speaker for clarity reasons. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
