The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Anti-racist initiatives at risk due to SSMU budget changes
O n August 16, McGill’s Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE) published an open letter to the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), criticizing SSMU for their use of “austerity logic and language” in connection with the potential defunding of anti-racist programmes. The open letter, which was co-signed by The Daily and other student groups, referenced two specific initiatives: Culture Shock and Social Justice Days. While the letter alleges that SSMU has definitively decided to defund these programmes, SSMU’s executive team released a statement claiming that “no decision has been made […] to defund Culture Shock and Social Justice Days.”
Culture Shock and Social Justice Days are event series run by the McGill chapter of the Quebec Public Interest Research Group (QPIRG), and co-funded by SSMU. While both have taken place annually on campus for the past 12 years, early versions of Culture Shock, originally run by SSMU alone, were described as misrepresentative of racial justice. In 2006, QPIRG offered to jointly run the program, with a mandate to focus on social justice issues. In recent years the event series has featured anti-racism workshops, as well as keynote speakers like Octavia’s Blood editor Walidah Imarisha, and spoken word artist Joshua Allen, a prison abolitionist and activist.
“Culture Shock and Social Justice Days are all about centering the stories and experiences of marginalized folks,” says Delali Egyima, who has attended and volunteered at the events in the past. 
“At the end of each event series, I was always left with the feeling that there’s so much more learning to be done. What I love most about these event series is knowing that the folks facilitating or giving talks are being paid for sharing knowledge that they are usually forced to share for free. Knowing an organization like SSMU sees the importance of creating different avenues for the continuous support of marginalized folks at McGill and in Montreal speaks volumes about their commitment to equity.”
“What I love most about these event series is knowing that the folks facilitating or giving talks are being paid for sharing knowledge that they are usually forced to share for free. Knowing an organization like SSMU sees the importance of creating different avenues for the continuous support of marginalized folks at McGill and in Montreal speaks volumes about their commitment to equity.”
Until recently, Culture Shock and Social Justice Days have been the only available anti-racist programming on campus funded by SSMU. This social role has been threatened over the last several years due to funding cuts. Until now, SSMU has supported the programming on three fronts: providing monetary funding, co-hiring staff, and offering free space in which to hold events. The letter published by the UGE stated that as of 2015, monetary funding had been reduced from its initial $10,000 to $2,040. In a subsequent interview with The Daily, a QPIRG representative stated that “the ability for QPIRG to book rooms in SSMU for the event series might be taken away as well as the funding.”
In essence, several QPIRG board members expressed concern to The Daily that the withdrawal of part of SSMU’s support could severely reduce the scale and potential of Culture Shock and Social Justice Days. They feared that to lose all three elements of that support – funding, staff, and space – would effectively end the programming.
In response to the UGE’s open letter, SSMU’s executive team issued a statement to The Daily. In it, the executives argued that, all things considered, SSMU currently provides QPIRG with an exceptional level of financial and logistical support.
“In the 2016/2017 school year,” explained the statement, “QPIRG was given $2040 from the SSMU Operating Budget, […] $1500 in additional funding for Culture Shock, $1182 and additional HR supports for the hiring and support of a Popular Education Coordinator for Culture Shock and Social Justice Days.”
The executives’ statement also mentioned the funding SSMU provides for QPIRG’s Rad Frosh, and claimed that overall they offer “more supports than provided to any other student group on campus and with a system that is outside the norm of that we offer other groups on campus, making our relationship with QPIRG an outlier in our standard operating procedures.”
Where should funding come from?
QPIRG currently receives funding both from SSMU’s operating budget and from the SSMU Funding Programme, the latter of which is financed through nine different student fees. It seems that SSMU is urging QPIRG to, instead, apply for all their funding for these event series through the Funding Programme.
QPIRG, however, doesn’t feel that this is an adequate solution to budgetary constraints.
“Applying through the Funding Programme is a very unstable model of funding,” a QPIRG representative told The Daily, “as QPIRG would have to incur expenses with no guarantee of what amount of funding we would receive. All of these concerns were expressed by QPIRG in our meetings with SSMU.”
The SSMU executives’ statement continues as follows: “We have also highly recommended that [QPIRG] increase their student fee if they do not feel it is sufficient to cover their operations and programming, and the SSMU would be happy to help support this campaign.”
In reponse, QPIRG staff members told The Daily that to raise their student fee would go against the mandates of both Culture Shock and Social Justice Days, which are intended to be collaborations with SSMU. Crucially, they argued, it would also represent an aquiescence to the very same austerity logic that QPIRG, as an organization dedicated to equity and accessibility, firmly opposes.
“We have also highly recommended that [QPIRG] increase their student fee if they do not feel it is sufficient to cover their operations and programming, and the SSMU would be happy to help support this campaign.” 
The future of Culture Shock and Social Justice Days is tenuous and it’s unclear when a final decision will be made. For their part, SSMU’s executive team has declined to comment further on this issue since releasing their initial statement.
Despite the tension between SSMU and QPIRG, however, both have expressed hope for upcoming discussions, and reaffirmed their commitment to anti-oppressive and anti-austerity ideals.
“We have to find solutions to ‘keep the lights on’ within these [budgetary] constraints, especially when efforts to increase our resource pool (such as the SSMU Base fee) are unsuccessful,” said the SSMU executive team in their statement. “While we would like to work towards finding the best possible solution, we need to be able to reach an agreement that works with the actual capacities of all parties involved. As marginalized people on this campus who are dedicated to the same issues, […] we must work together to find solutions to assist one another.”
The QPIRG board and staff expressed similar sentiments, writing in a statement to The Daily, “We know that these SSMU [executives] care about social justice programming and making changes at McGill. So it’s really sad that this is happening and we really don’t want to be fighting them! […] We’d love to work with them on [these programmes].”
“While we would like to work towards finding the best possible solution, we need to be able to reach an agreement that works with the actual capacities of all parties involved. As marginalized people on this campus who are dedicated to the same issues, […] we must work together to find solutions to assist one another.”
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Investing in fossil fuels unethical and unsustainable, say protesters 
On Friday September 8, around 300 students, activists, and community members gathered at Place Jean-Paul Riopelle, in front of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) building to rally against CDPQ’s investment in fossil fuels. The event was a collaboration between various NGOs, grassroots organizations, and student associations like the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec (AVEQ), Sortons la Caisse du Carbone, Climate Justice Montreal, Climate Reality Canada, Mobilisation environment Ahunstic-Cartierville, Greenpeace Quebec, and the David Suzuki Foundation.
The protest was scheduled to coincide with the forty-sixth session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) taking place in Montreal from September 3-9. The IPCC is a panel where scientists discuss the most recent climate change assessment report.
The event was also part of a petition effort to divest CDPQ’s funds. CDPQ is a crown corporation that manages public pension plans and insurance programs in Quebec, which are estimated to amount up to more than $270 billion CAD.
The petition by Climate Justice Montreal, “Get Off My Caisse,” explains that “$16.2 billion of this was invested in the oil and gas industry” last year alone, which contravenes the Paris Climate Agreement Canada signed in April 2017. The petition calls for the withdrawal of all fossil fuel investments in the next three years, as fossil fuels are “in the process of becoming strongly devalued,” both environmentally and financially. Protesters held banners, flags, and black balloons representing carbon in the atmosphere, which were popped at the end of the rally, symbolizing the rupturing of carbon bubble.
The Quebec Pension Plan is currently the largest pension fund in Canada, reaching an estimate of $16.7 billion CAD and coming second only to Ontario’s Canadian Pension Plan (CPP). The contributions to the plan are collected through an autonomic payroll deduction or through taxes on a customer’s bill, meaning consumers are unable to divest unless the Quebec Pension Plan as a whole does so. According to Diego Creimer, Communications Director of the David Suzuki Foundation, the lack of sustainable practices in CDPQ is not only “betting against our future, and the future of our children,” but also implicates those indirectly contributing to the fund as “accomplices to a climate crime.”
“Citizen groups, students, unions, and religious groups have decided to come to this rally today to show that there is no future in fossil fuels, that our collective money is at risk, and that by investing in fossil fuels, our pension funds are betting against the Paris Agreement,” said Creimer in an interview with The Daily.
“We are […] here today to ask our public administrator of pension funds to please bring our money out of fossil fuels,” he continued. “The urgency of the climate crisis does not need to be explained anymore. Hurricanes are basically becoming highly destructive because they are fueled by climate change, so the urgency is there, the science is there, now they have to present a plan to quickly divest.”
“The urgency of the climate crisis does not need to be explained anymore. Hurricanes are basically becoming highly destructive because they are fueled by climate change, so the urgency is there, the science is there, now they have to present a plan to quickly divest.”
Creimer also noted the financial instability of fossil fuel investments in the long run: “they need to have a plan to get out of fossil fuels in the short term, not only environmentally but financially as well. […] We are putting our money at risk because the […] transition to clean and new technology is inevitable, and fossil fuel assets are going to abruptly lose their value.”
“We’re investing more and more money into an industry that’s going to pop,” agreed Kristen Perry, the Coordinator of Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec (AVEQ). “We need to be moving those investments away into something that’s not only better ethically but also better for our finances.”
“We’re investing more and more money into an industry that’s going to pop. […] We need to be moving those investments away into something that’s not only better ethically but also better for our finances.”
Perry stressed the role of student engagement and putting pressure on the administration to move toward socially responsible investment.“For AVEQ, it’s really important that we are working on climate change. […] Students […] know that it’s time for us to use our position in our institutions like McGill, like Concordia, to Caisse, to say that ‘we don’t want our money going towards investing in something that’s going to be destroying our future.’ We want to invest in solutions—things that are going to support us and the environment, supporting Indigenous peoples, and fossil fuels do not do any of that. […] We’re calling for McGill University to divest from fossil fuels, and likewise, we are calling for Caisse to divest from fossil fuels,” said Perry.
“We want to invest in solutions—things that are going to support us and the environment, supporting Indigenous peoples, and fossil fuels do not do any of that. […] We’re calling for McGill University to divest from fossil fuels, and likewise, we are calling for Caisse to divest from fossil fuels.”
While the Paris Agreement commits the government to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 per cent by 2030, the Canadian government has simultaneously expanded oil production through the pipeline projects. This has not only caused environmental damage, but has also resulted in social consequences that have disproportionately affected the Indigenous population.
Charlene Aleck, a spokesperson from the Tsleil-Waututh Nation, told the audience, “We are greatly affected by the Kinder Morgan pipeline expansion […] which these folks have invested their money in. […] From day one, our whole nation has 100 per cent opposed this pipeline expansion and the effects it brings to our community.”
“The drill bit that would become a pipeline would contaminate our backyard, and our kitchen sink, […] the waters our territory has given us […] and sustained us. […] All our traditional foods […] are greatly affected by the industry that we have opposed,” continued Aleck.
The Tsleil-Waututh Nation launched a campaign against the planned expansion of the Kinder Morgan and Trans Mountain pipeline in May 2017. The Nation circulated a report regarding the risks of the investments in partnership with West Coast Environmental Law. “With this [we] ask that these investors take a look at the […] point we are at today, to change away from fossil fuels to green energy,” concluded Aleck.
“From day one, our whole nation has 100 per cent opposed this pipeline expansion and the effects it brings to our community. […] The drill bit that would become a pipeline would contaminate our backyard, and our kitchen sink, […] the waters our territory has given us […] and sustained us. […] All our traditional foods […] are greatly affected by the industry that we have opposed.”
Eugene Kung, an environmental lawyer working on the prevention of the expansion of tar sands infrastructure told the audience, “There have never been more forest fires. […] When we left Vancouver yesterday, you could see the mountains, the sun, the clouds completely clouded by smoke. […] Our public institutions need to stop, […] not just because it’s a financial decision, but it’s a moral decision now. […] This is about the future.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
