The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Gendered & sexual violence policy report releases recommendations
Content Warning: sexual assault 
In July 2018, McGill University’s Gendered and Sexual Violence Policy (GSVP) Report was released to the public following a series of related events over the past year: the implementation of Bill 151, the open letter drafted by former Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) VP External Connor Spencer, Coordinator of mobilization for AVEQ Kristen Perry, and Co-Founder and National Chair of Our Turn.
The writers of the GSVP report are Caitlin Salvino, the coordinator, with Bee Khaleeli and Priya Dube, acting as advisors for the report. The report breaks down the history and continued advocacy of gendered and sexual assault and violence at McGill as well as recommendations to the administration to integrate into the GSVP. Over the last two years at McGill, there have been many publicized gendered and sexual misconduct and assault allegations. Allegations against VP External David Aird and former SSMU President Ben Ger arose in early 2017, leading to their resignations. In addition, sexual misconduct allegations were made against Assistant Professor Ahmed Fekry Ibrahim by activist group Zero Tolerance last fall. These events led to a student walkout last April, and the drafting of this report.    
On May 10, 2018, the Provost and Vice-Principal Professor Christopher P. Manfredi, also sent out an email to McGill students, faculty, and staff introducing the new Ad Hoc Senate Committee on Teaching Staff-Student Intimate Relationships headed by Chair, Sinead Hunt. The Committee is in charge of gathering online testimony where students and staff can either submit their personal opinions, or discuss their own lived experience(s) of sexual violence and assault which will be sent to the Chair. The committee is fairly confidential, due to it technically being under the McGill Senate, as a result the transparency of its progress is limited. However, a final report of the Committee’s work will be produced and shared publicly sometime during December 2018.
The Committee is in charge of gathering online testimony where students and staff can either submit their personal opinions, or discuss their own lived experience(s) of sexual violence and assault which will be sent to the Chair.
In addition to the Chair, the Committee is composed of three members of the academic staff, Professor Debra Titone (Psychology, faculty of Science), Professor Jean-Jacques Lebrun (Medicine, faculty of Medicine), and Professor Brian Lewis (History and Classical Studies, faculty of Arts). There are also three students, Safina Adatia (Medicine), Bee Khaleeli (Arts), Naomi Vingron (PhD program in Psychology) as well as two alternate student members who may substitute for a student member during Committee meetings.
Manfredi explained that until the work of the Ad Hoc committee is complete, the Guidelines on Intimate Relationships between Teaching Staff and Students, a more detailed draft of existing regulations and policies, would continue to be in place as the working policy at McGill. But this may still lead to some issues, as report advisor and student representative on the committee Bee Khaleeli said in a phone interview with the Daily: “the McGill Sexual Violence Policy it says that a relationship between a professor and their student is non-consensual but that isn’t necessarily [made clear] across the board and in other McGill policies […] [we need to be] explicit in what we expect from people”.
Khaleeli also explained that although the committee members are “not very representative of […] the people who are [generally] more vulnerable to sexual violence and more vulnerable to the abuses of power that produce the types of violence that this committee [typically] deal with” there is a high level of ‘consciousness’. The GSVP report emphasizes the importance of acknowledging that people of colour as well as those who identify as non-binary have experiences with sexual violence which oftentimes go unrecognized.
“I think that it’s very regrettable that the committee is a little bit more homogenous [but] I think that there is a consciousness [of this reality internally].”*
The report includes recommendations in terms of training members of the McGill community in “general anti-sexual violence training,” “in depth disclosure and investigation training,” as well as “training for members of the GSVP Committee.”
“I think that it’s very regrettable that the committee is a little bit more homogenous [but] I think that there is a consciousness [of this reality internally].”*
Khaleeli, the implementation coordinator of these training sessions, is also in charge of drafting the policy of training, as well as conducting “pilot sessions” with members of legislative counsel and SSMU executive members. Currently, only SSMU employees including members of the Board of Directors, and members of the legislative counsel are mandated to undergo training; however, there is a hope that in the upcoming year, training will be required for either five members or fifty percent of a club’s membership of all SSMU clubs and services.
The training sessions currently scheduled for this year will be approximately one and a half hour workshops that will be “very interactive because I think that it’s always more valuable to do a dialogue based peer to peer [interaction] rather than just lectur[ing] at someone,” says Khaleeli. These workshops will focus on “broadly defining sexual and gendered violence on a wider spectrum of what race culture produces and contextualizing that [with] various forms of oppression […] like racism, transphobia, transmisogyny, class relations.”
“It’s very much like a collaborative workshop […] just because I find that otherwise people don’t really gain as much […] it’s always good when people are producing the answers themselves,” explained Khaleeli.
Priya Dube also expressed a hopefulness about the training sessions. “I’m most hopeful about the bystander intervention component of the training process because then it creates a community of accountability where everybody participating in these spaces [whether it be] in a club be it [during] orientation week be it in a classroom be it in a study group […] you have become a part of a community of accountability.”
Bystander intervention, says Dube, is “the idea that we are all part of a broader community and everybody should be caring for one another and if you see something wrong and even if it’s not your friend and you don’t know that person you can tell right from wrong you’re a moral being who has that conscience [and] you should take action because of you don’t then who will.”
“[bystander intervention] creates a community of accountability where everybody participating in these spaces [whether it be] in a club be it [during] orientation week be it in a classroom be it in a study group you have become a part of a community of accountability.”
While the creation of the Committee, as well as the establishment of the Office for Sexual VIolence Response, Support, and Education (OSVRSE) in March 2018, are important responses from the McGill administration as a result of last year’s events, both Khaleeli and Dube expressed the importance of further change.
“I think often it’s easy to feel like ‘oh this Committee happened so there has been an administrative solution so we are good’ but I think something that’s going to come out of this is also we cannot just produce a report with recommendations […] it needs to be received and taken into account and […] subsequent work needs to be done [and] needs to be identified,” says Khaleeli.
Dube explained how there is hope that more people in the McGill community will become involved in advocating for change with how sexual assault is currently handled at McGill.
“What was exceptionally interesting to me was how many people came out the day of the walkout [and who] did not participate in anything else and even though that showed solidarity and support and [was] very important I just wish that the community at large would make use of the spaces and channels available to them to actually advocate and make concrete changes and not just take a Snapchat about walking out of class.”
Dube went on to explain that “one of the three pillars of the report like support report and advocacy so the advocacy portion has an Our Turn Task Force it’s whole point is to educate raise awareness not only about the policy but about prevention measures [and] support measures really grassroots taking more action and I think that’ll give more opportunities to people to engage and be involved.”
“I just wish that the community at large would make use of the spaces and channels available to them to actually advocate and make concrete changes and not just take a Snapchat about walking out of class.”
“Ultimately I think it comes down to the people in the positions of power themselves” Dube continued, “[and these people] having the willingness to take a survivor-centric approach rather than a scandal-minimization approach so it’s a culture change that’s required.”
*original quote has been shortened to preserve confidentiality
Statement of Retraction: In the original version of this article, published September 4, 2018, it was stated that “Ahmed Fekry Ibrahim […] was accused of sexual assault this past July.” While Assistant Professor Ahmed Fekry Ibrahim has not been charged with, or legally accused of, assault, there have been serious allegations of sexual misconduct made against him. It is important to us to use accurate language while supporting survivors and holding abusers accountable.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
SLAV at the Jazz Fest
This summer’s Montreal Jazz Fest faced intense international controversy for its support, and production, of SLAV, a musical described as a “theatrical odyssey based on slave songs”, featuring white creators and mainly white actors. Due to the violent history behind the show’s subject matter, the lack of Black representation in the performance caused outcry and sparked protests. In creating the show, Robert LePage and Betty Bonifassi, consulted artists of colour and were encouraged to include more artists of colour in the show, yet did not follow these recommendations. One reviewer for the Montreal Gazette commented, “[the performers] wearing scarves in their hair and flowing skirts, mimed picking cotton; and that’s where things began to fall apart. Accepting the image of white women picking cotton requires a significant degree of cognitive dissonance. It was but the first of many such instances.”
The following protests lead some showgoers to accuse protesters of threatening free speech, telling them to instead focus on the art. The same reviewer had comments on this matter as well: “This is not a comment on their talent but their skin colour, which pretty much disqualifies them from credibly portraying black slaves.”
SLAV’s remaining performances were cancelled at the Montreal Jazz Festival after the controversial show quickly gained widespread attention and even caused some performers to withdraw from the festival in protest.
The show is still scheduled to be performed early next year in other parts of Quebec.    
Floods in Kerala
Kerala, a state located in south-western India, is practically underwater, new NASA satellite images show. Since August 8, the Indian state of Kerala has experienced a particularly horrendous spell of monsoon rain, wherein the state receivied one third more than usual precipitation, and subsequent flooding. Over 400 people have lost their lives in the flooding epidemic, with close to a million others displaced. Rescue operations have since ended but significant funds are needed to start rebuilding and rehabilitating the land. In line with Kerala and India’s past actions during natural disasters, the government is denying any and all offers of foreign aid, a move which local officials are condemning, considering the level of damage in the area. Instead, the government of Kerala has set up The Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund for civilian donations.
It is expected that Kerala will continue to suffer damages both physically and financially. Farming, construction, and tourism were all put on hold during the height of flooding, and the  state’s largest  airport in Kochi was shut down for a number of weeks, only recently resuming service. In comments made to Reuters, the State Financial Minister of Kerala T.M. Thomas Isaac said he expected GDP for the area to drop by 2%. It is estimated that the tourism industry, responsible for roughly 10% of the state’s economy and 25% of the state’s jobs, will suffer a $357 million loss as a result of the flood. The Chief Minister of Kerala now believes that the original estimate of $2.8 billion (USD) for damages and repairs across the province will not be enough to rectify the trauma. 
Student protests in Bangladesh
Two students died in a violent bus crash in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, on July 29. The tragedy has since caused outrage, prompting  other students to organize protests over the condition of the country’s roads. The accident in question occurred when a speeding bus from a privately owned company ran into a group of students, killing two, and injuring many others. Accidents like this are not uncommon in Bangladesh; the World Health Organization estimates that around 300,000 people die in road accidents in the nation each year. In protest of the bus crash and the general unsafety of the roads, students in Dhaka protested these conditions by taking over the streets, only letting emergency vehicles through and making sure that all drivers are in possession of a license. Despite the success of these students, reports say that during their takeover congestion in the city dramatically decreased, the Bangladeshi Government is outraged at their conduct, using violent measures to “control the problem”.
In early August, authorities resorted to beating protesters with batons, even using water cannons and tear gas on student demonstrators outside Dhaka University. A prominent journalist, Shahidul Alam, has also been arrested for his comments made in support of the protests and against the government. Alam is now coming forward with allegations that he was tortured by authorities while in custody. Activists are concerned that if authorities continue abusing students on the street, this abuse will continue while protesters are held in custody.
While the government of Bangladesh is not in support of the students and their actions, they recently  tabled a new piece of legislation including some of the demands put forward by the student protesters called The Road Transport Act 2018, which is now awaiting legislative approval.
The protests ended August 6, and while during the height of the action roads were deemed safer, since the dispersion of demonstrators, some say that the roads have reverted back to their original, dangerous condition. Bangladesh’s National Committee to Protect Shipping, Roads, and Railways reports that between July 29 and August 27, 282 road accidents were recorded resulting in 315 deaths and 819 injuries.      
Canada-Saudi Arabia human rights dispute
On August 2, Chrystia Freeland, Canada’s Minister of foreign affairs tweeted her shock over Saudi Arabia’s arrest of women’s rights activist Samar Badawi. Badawi’s brother,  Raif Badawi, also an activist, has been detained since 2012. In her tweet she expressed her anger over the situation and called for the release of both the siblings. “Very alarmed to learn that Samar Badawi, Raif Badawi’s sister, has been imprisoned in Saudi Arabia. Canada stands together with the Badawi family in this difficult time, and we continue to strongly call for the release of both Raif and Samar Badawi,” wrote Freeland. The following day both The Canadian Foreign Ministry and the Canadian Embassy in Saudi Arabia also shared tweets with similar sentiments to Freeland’s. On August 5 the Kingdom’s Foreign Ministry responded, also via  Twitter, saying Canada had a “negative” attitude and was “interfering with the internal affairs of the Kingdom”. The ministry further declared  that no new trade or investments will be made with Canada and tweeting the exile of Canada’s ambassador to the country, demanding that he leave within the next 24 hours.  The Saudi government  has also suspended all flights to Toronto, withdrawn support for over 15,000 students studying in Canada with the exception of medical students who are allowed temporary stay in the country , and is moving all Saudi patients receiving treatment in Canada to other countries.
Canada has stood behind its claims and has recently gained international support through a letter signed by numerous international dignitaries. As Saudi Arabia plans to behead a female activist for the first time in the Kingdom’s history, Canada is standing by Freeland’s original comments, with Prime Minister Trudeau saying in a press conference: “Canadians have always expected our government to speak strongly, firmly and politely about the need to respect human rights around the world. We will continue to stand up for Canadian values and human rights.”
There is no word yet on if Canada will make an attempt to withdraw from its existing arms deal with Saudi Arabia.              
Ontario elections
Doug Ford, leader of the Ontario Progressive Conservatives, became the new premier of Ontario following the  party’s majority election win on June 7 of this year. The election of Ford disrupted the consecutive 15 years of Liberal government in Ontario, ousting Kathleen Wynne as Premier. The Liberal party, for the first time in 161 years, did not win enough seats to maintain party status, winning only seven  seats across the province. The NDP, led by Andrea Horvath is now the official opposition party.
Ford, during the campaign did not provide a fiscal platform like the other candidates, instead offered  a list of promises with a focus on restoring “respect for the taxpayers”.
Since his election, Doug Ford and the Progressive Conservatives have followed through on a few of their promises. Highlights of the Ford Government’s actions include: the cancelling of municipal elections for the Regional Chair position across the province, the termination  of Ontario’s Basic Income Project, withdrawing from Ontario’s cap and trade program and related energy programs, and reverting back to the province’s 1998 sex-ed curriculum instead of using the controversial 2015 version. Most recently, Ford introduced the Buck-A-Beer program, one of the main policies of Ford’s campaign, which would mandate the lowest price for a can of beer to be $1, with incentives for breweries to  offer  beer at this price.   
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A community expresses the necessity of empowerment and empathy
Content Warning: sexual abuse, suicide
The Open Door, a drop-in centre which provides services to homeless and low-income people located in St. Stephen’s Anglican Church, is scheduled to relocate to Notre-Dame-de-la-Salette in Milton Park near the end of October. The shelter, which was started in 1988 and has been operating for the past thirty years, was recently sold to a condominium developer which is forcing The Open Door to move locations. According to its website, The Open Door helps between 1800 and 2200 people per month, some of those people being either regular, occasional, or one-time visitors. The center is open every day from 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday to Friday but there are hopes that the new move will help facilitate an extension of the hours the centre is open during the day.
The Open Door provides several services for it’s visitors. They cater to “immediate needs” offering breakfast and full course meals from the morning until its closing time, as well as a clothing depot, and the services of a retired nurse who works on site every operating day. It also provides visitors with hair cuts every Friday, a laundry room, a free phone line, free eye glasses, spiritual counselling, as well as a worship team which engages people with live music as part of its goal to “build up the self worth” of those staying at The Open Door.
In an interview with the Daily, David Chapman, the director of The Open Door, explained that one of the unique aspects of The Open Door is that “we also have a policy where if we know that someone’s working through a trauma and they’re really at their wit’s end we will make it so that the rest of the community adapts themselves to that person.”
To put it another way, says Chapman, “it’s the only place in the city of Montreal where you can come in and scream and yell for 25 minutes […] if we know that someone has just lost a loved one or who is at their wit’s end we’ll make a way [for them to work through their trauma].” There is a psychologist who comes in and meets with people individually.
The Open Door does not have an emission policy. While the centre is not technically a wet shelter, as they do not serve alcohol to visitors, it does admit people who are highly intoxicated and provide them with the same services. At larger centres, if someone is visibly intoxicated, they are not allowed in, explained Chapman.
“we also have a policy where if we know that someone’s working through a trauma and they’re really at their wit’s end we will make it so that the rest of the community adapts themselves to that person.”
In terms of reintegration into society, The Open Door has a Job Search Centre which helps people with writing cover letters and resumes, and which also has volunteers who help search databases for temporary, seasonal, and part time jobs. A training program in conjunction with Emploi Quebec which provides an income increase to participants; however, Chapman explained that this program is not usually as helpful in practice than it is in theory. Many of these applications require extensive paperwork and identification, which does not take into account the difficulty of the situations of many of those who are homeless, where many of them have had their identification paperwork stolen.
Chapman says that it is an easier process for many of those who are homeless to apply to jobs at The Open Door itself. The whole center is run by the homeless community themselves including the laundry service, the kitchen, and the front desk. This aspect, explains Chapman, breaks down categories of volunteer, employee, and visitors. The Open Door operates with the idea of “the homeless serving the homeless.”
James, a volunteer with The Open Door explained to the Daily how he started off helping out at the centre by doing his community hours there from November 2017 to February 2018 before becoming a full-time volunteer in March 2018.
The Open Door operates with the idea of “the homeless serving the homeless.”
“I was having a lot of problems with my back […] I had an infection from drug use and it resulted in surgery […] so I was having a hard time walking so I figured if I could come here and do my community service it would be easier when I finished that I decided to stay on because […] Zack and David who were running the place […] they’re authentic [in what they say and do] and it really inspired me and I started feeling really good about being here with them and learning from them,” said James.
“I stayed on as a volunteer here and I just recently applied for a grant so that the government would supply my wages and they agreed to it so I’ll be able to stay on […] I want to stay on for as long as possible.”
Chapman also explained how many people of Inuit background he has met at The Open Door come to Quebec from Northern Canada in order to obtain medical services and choose to stay in the province. However, due to the requirement of those who work in Quebec to speak French, many are unable to find permanent jobs. According to a document written by Donat Savoie and Sylvie Cornez, advisors to the Makivik Corporation (one of the partners of The Open Door), other reasons for migration include physical and sexual abuse, primarily of Inuit women.
Anna*, an Inuit woman staying at The Open Door, was one of the most recent visitors who was given a plane ticket back to her home community in Northern Canada, returning home after leaving an abusive relationship. Anna was one of the twelve visitors who was able to be flown back to her community, a program which Chapman provides for visitors who have experienced extensive hardship acclimating to life in Montreal.
The centre also has a housing program primarily for its Inuit visitors. In September 2016, The Open Door received approval from the Government of Canada’s federal Homelessness Partnering Strategy for a grant which enabled the center to house and support up to 16 Inuit men and women in a permanent housing location. As of April 30, 2017, ten individuals have been given housing.
In terms of its own housing, The Open Door has been operating in St. Stephen’s Anglican Church for the most part of the last 30 years. However, its move to the new location has its logistical as well as its emotional challenges. Many of the visitors of The Open Door have been living in Atwater and will find it difficult to get to the new location in Milton Park.
Kevin, a regular visitor to The Open Door explained to the Daily, “when they move I don’t know what these people in Atwater are going to do.. […] .unless they’re going to go all the way to Parc Avenue […] maybe they’ll be able to get a bus from here to go there.” For the first few months, The Open Door is planning to have volunteers waiting in Cabot Square near St. Stephen’s Church who will help people get on the metro to go to the new centre.
The new location is expected to also include essential renovations.
Chapman expressed some of his hopes for renovations in the new space, which included a commercial kitchen with walk-in fridge, laundry facilities, private offices for counselling, and a dedicated shop for the centre’s Soapstone Carving Program where Inuit peoples show Inuit peoples how to carve soapstone, a native cultural practice.
In the current location, “you can get clothes or get washing done […] the only thing they don’t have [which] they used to [have] and [which] the new one [will have] I think is a shower […] [currently there is also] only one bathroom […] and nine out of ten times you go to the bathroom there’s someone there,” says Kevin.
James also explained how the new space will also hopefully allow The Open Door to extend their hours in order to house more visitors during the day.
“These people are left out on the street […] then they get tickets for loitering and they get tickets for this and that but what do you expect them to do? If they had day centers to go to there would probably be a lot less loitering in the parks.”
Chapman explained that the new move has been in the works for the last two years, during which he has visited forty potential spaces for the new location. He has faced the same response: “Not here please…we like what you’re doing [but] not here please.”
“These people are left out on the street […] then they get tickets for loitering and they get tickets for this and that but what do you expect them to do? If they had day centers to go to there would probably be a lot less loitering in the parks.”
“When you’re a homeless center it’s actually quite complicated because no one really wants you in their neighborhood. Most people like the idea of having services for the homeless and having resources like intervention workers [who] take people to detox and rehab […] and access to healthcare and housing and this sort of thing but […] when it comes to actually having it in their neighborhood all of a sudden there’s a new spirit that emerges so […] this is something we have seen firsthand.”
Throughout its years of operation, The Open Door has received mixed responses from nearby residents. People have different reactions to the “exact same phenomenon”, says Chapman.
There are some people who think “‘here’s a complicated human problem called homelessness [and] we should pitch in and do something about it’ and they’ll come in and make soup and volunteer and [then] we’ll have others who simply complain about the inconvenience of it to their life.”
James, however, has another outlook to services to The Open Door. “I think [my favourite thing about volunteering here] is the people and the connections that I have it’s being able to help people…I go home at night and I feel good”
There are some people who think “‘here’s a complicated human problem called homelessness [and] we should pitch in and do something about it’ and they’ll come in and make soup and volunteer and [then] we’ll have others who simply complain about the inconvenience of it to their life.”
“You really realize the importance of relationships because you never know what’s going to happen…twenty-four hours can change a lot.”
*name has been changed to preserve anonymity
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
