The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Accessibility is Still a Problem, Say Disability Rights Activists
Since Canada’s last federal election in 2015, much has changed except, according to disability advocates, voter accessibility. Despite the Advisory Group for Disability Issues’ report in 2016, which included suggestions for voter accessibility following the previous election, “little has changed,” according to disability rights activist Megan Linton. Of the 11 recommendations by the committee, the status of their implementation hasn’t been announced, and it’s unclear how many and on what scale they will be implemented by October’s voting period.
In response, Elections Canada (EC) has claimed that they have “taken concrete action on more than half of these 11 items,” but the availability of these changes in each province was not mentioned. Specifically, EC states that improvements include “significantly expanding the suite of digital and print-based information products for electors with disabilities; […] allowing for personal use of mobile applications that gives an audible verification for an elector’s marked ballot and changing the design of the ballot to make this easier; and expanding the accessibility testing of Elections Canada’s print products and its website, “as well as improving training for election workers, though the specifics of the training have not been clarified. To address criticism, EC cited the many legislative steps required to make the called for changes as the reason they have not been fully implemented.
According to Linton, clarity and accessibility on the ballot are especially important for the federal election, as the higher number of candidates – as well as differences between provincial and federal parties – can lead to confusion.
Canadian voters with disabilities, who only fully gained the right to vote in 1993, still face considerable difficulty at polling stations and accessing candidates themselves. Though polling stations are more likely to be physically accessible, the office of many political candidates may not be, which can make gathering information and engaging with the political process difficult.
Opportunities and Barriers
While EC does provide the opportunity for individuals to vote from home if their local polling station isn’t accessible, these services, including the ability to have a sign-language interpreter or aide at polling stations, must be arranged ahead of time. Requirements like these create barriers for disabled individuals to access opportunities to cast their ballots without difficulty, let alone with the same ease as able-bodied or neurotypical voters. Additionally, information for these services are not readily available or easy to navigate, and they can remain unknown to voters. Of the 37 accessibility criteria set out by EC, only 15 are mandatory, and voters must call ahead to find out which polling stations fit their needs. Most of these accommodations are only available with advanced polling, which does not fall under the day that citizens can legally take off work to vote – which is only the official election day.
Trial and Error on the Provincial Level
Manitoba’s general election, which was called early and held last Tuesday, was a useful indicator to how calls for improved accessibility have progressed. Not only do early elections make the accommodations needed by some voters with disabilities difficult to arrange, but recommendations such as adding pictures to ballots – a useful tool for those with intellectual and learning disabilities as well as neurodivergent individuals – were not implemented in the voting process. Ballot modifications such as these aid in avoiding confusion between candidates and lessen the chance of errors.
The unnecessarily early election creates additional barriers and confusion that, paired with the lack of action by the election organizations, continues the disenfranchisement of disabled voters in a cruel, usual way,” Linton said in a piece for the CBC.
In Ontario’s general election last fall, Elections Ontario employed 175 “accessibility machines” in polling stations across the province. However, several voters came forward expressing issues with the machines, as some simply did not work or were unavailable. In one case, some voters were left with no choice other than to convey their choice to an elections official verbally. There were also many reports of voters having to rely on physical assistance from election workers to cast their ballot, with one wheelchair user adding that an elections official saw his choice by the end of the process.
Additionally, these machines were only available in polling stations during the advanced polling period, and not on Election Day itself. On Election Day, voters with visual impairments were provided with a braille template, though some voters – including disability rights advocate David Leopsky – reported that the templates were not offered at some polling stations, and some had to use the audio-visual aids with great difficulty.
Rights and Privileges
As disability rights organizations, such as the Canadian National Institute for the Blind (CNIB) assert, voters with disabilities have the right to private and independent voting inside the polling station. (As it stands, a federal act laying out rights for Canadians with disabilities – for issues concerning more than just voting – is not yet law, and was officially proposed just this summer.) This can be especially difficult for some voters, who, due to inaccessibility of voting booths, require an aide to enter the polling station with them. Though this is an offered accommodation by EC, it ultimately removes the possibility of voters having an independent and confidential voting process. This is a reality for voters with visual impairments, as, depending on the province or area, the most common accommodations are ballots templates printed in Braille. If those are not available, voters with visual impairments must have someone read the ballot to them and then cast their ballot verbally, or they must have an elections worker aid them in filling out a ballot. EC had previously worked with the CNIB on a new technology for voters with visual impairments, but it was abandoned in 2010 and there has been no further progress since.
Though calls for increased accessibility are present across the country, it is unclear if EC will take these suggestions to action this October, or if accessibility measures will work effectively. And even though disability rights groups and activists are working to make accessibility possible ahead of the election, one Ontario voter, Tim Nolan, who is legally blind, says there is a “gap in the whole democratic system.”
“While everybody else who doesn’t have a disability has both the right and privilege,” Nolan says, “persons with disabilities do not get the privilege.”
 
An earlier version of this story incorrectly attributed Elections Canada, rather than Elections Ontario, as the facilitators of the “accessibility machines” in 2018’s election. The Daily regrets this error.  
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Great News for Urban Transportation?
Micromobility – referring to the use of “light” vehicles such as small electric cars, electric bicycles, and all forms of scooters as been increasing in popularity in recent years, as an “environmentally-friendly” alternative form of transportation. Recent years have brought shifts in citizens’ preferences for alternative modes of transportation, according to the National Association of City Transportation Officials.
So it didn’t come as a surprise, when less than a month after dockless electric scooters made their debut in Calgary, Montreal – Canada’s second-largest city – officially launched a micromobility fleet of its own in mid-August. Due to their fast-growing popularity, this new movement has given rise to issues such as road safety, as well as public space-sharing and design.
But while Lime is reportedly “excited to get to work in Montreal,” many public officials and elected members of the City Council of Montreal are claiming the arrival and deployment of Lime in the city to be a disaster.
In late August, Montreal Mayor Valerie Plante told CBC that they are “not satisfied on how it is being implemented.”
One of the main issues comes from scooters blocking the sidewalk when parked. Even though Montreal has reserved 239 spaces for scooter parking in the city, Alan Caldwell – city executive committee member responsible for mobility – told the Montreal Gazette that scooter parking is a recurring problem. “When they’re properly parked, it is okay,” Caldewell told the Gazette, “but there are too many scooters improperly parked in the streets of Montreal.”
Social and Ecological Outcomes
According to INRIX – a transportation-focused research organization – on trips that are replaced by shared-bikes and scooters, cities are experiencing less traffic congestion, reduced emissions, and a local economic boost.
But even though the scooters themselves don’t emit carbon dioxide, the process of producing, charging, and transporting them is not emission-free. Researchers at North Carolina State University found that most of the harm comes from manufacturing the device and from transporting them around cities, which is typically done by car.
In addition to creating carbon emissions through the transportation process, Lime also poses several issues with their employment. According to Alex Youn, a representative for Lime’s Communications and Public Affairs, “juicers” the people who charge scooters, are paid “between $3-10+ per scooter, depending on the market” and are not paid hourly. When this pay is stacked against the prices of gas, as juicers must supply their own vehicles, the compensation is minimal.
The requirement of having a vehicle to work as a juicer also creates an issue with accessibility. One McGill student who entered the job application process with Lime told the Daily, “it’s almost impossible for people who don’t have cars […] [or] a Canadian liscence [sic] to get the job.”
“At the beginning I thought it was a cool side job students could take for some extra money, but most students don’t have a car they could use any time, and even if they did own one, the time commitment compared to the payment, in addition to having to use your own gas aren’t worth it,” they added.
The student continued, ìI think it excludes a large portion of people who could actually benefit from […] a job like this one.”
Regulations and Safety
Regulating the parking, speed, and permitted areas of operation for scooters is critical. Currently, Lime scooters have a speed limit of 20 km per hour, and they slow down in certain zones automatically. But rapid changes in the volume and modes of transportation on the road have made it difficult for cities, such as Montreal, to keep up.
But many Montreal residents are concerned with riders who often don’t wear a helmet. In a Global News article, one resident says they “haven’t seen one person wear a helmet yet, so many of them are riding on the sidewalk.” According to the same article, the city is currently in talks with Lime to address this.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
A Review of the First Legislative Council



Content warning: misgendering, transphobia
Continue or go back to the main page

On September 10, the SSMU Legislative Council convened for their first meeting of the fall semester. While a significant portion of Council was dedicated to committee allocations and reports from both the executives and committees, there were a number of important motions brought to council, notably the Motion Regarding Adoption of the Standing Rules, as well as the Motion Regarding Adoption of a Conflict of Interest Policy.
Content warning: misgendering, transphobia
Continue or go back to the main page
There was little debate regarding the latter, most significantly over how long to extend the policy for – Council eventually agreed to extend it until 2024 in order to stagger the dates that policies must return to Council. On the other hand, there was a great deal of debate regarding the changes to the standing rules, with a significant area of discussion focused on a number of the recommendations given by the Gender Neutral Language Researcher, specifically regarding the format of the placards used in Council, as well as responses to misgendering.
Colour-Coded Pronouns on Placards
Clause 4.7.1, which was eventually removed from the motion, was particularly controversial. It stated, “placards will also use a neutral colour system to more easily identify commonly used pronouns as recommended by the Gender Neutral Language Policy Implementation Coordinator.” In this recommendation, green would be used for councillors using she/her pronouns, burgundy for councillors using he/him pronouns, and black for councillors using they/them pronouns.
However, councillors had different opinions on the colour scheme, with some advocating to keep it the same. It was eventually agreed to keep the placards red, and instead increase the font of the pronouns.
VP University Affairs Madeline Wilson, who was in favour of removing the coloured bands in exchange for increasing the font size of the pronouns, explained her position further to the Daily:
“In my experience, the coloured band on [councillors’] placards has become colloquially understood to refer to their gender identity and not their pronouns. So for example, a councillor who used she/her and they/them pronouns and identified as a woman would be assigned the placard band colo[u]r that denotes a female gender identity, which a) fails to capture the full picture of this person’s experience with gender and b) does not, in my opinion, simplify the identification of the pronouns by which they wish to be addressed.” She elaborated to say “that presenting options within the binary and then one option outside the binary conveys the idea that such a binary exists, when in reality, it does not.”
Wilson writes that SSMU Legislative Council has been a “deeply, systemically, and toxically masculine” space, and that “to implement this mechanism (the coloured placard bans) and do nothing to address the fact that Council can be (and has been) an actively hostile space for folks who do not identify as male, [feels] like a slap in the face.”
Responses to Misgendering During Council
Additionally, there was debate over clauses 2.7.5.2 and 2.7.5.3, the first of which mandated that if the Speaker notices the misgendering of any councillor, they call it to Council’s attention by stating, “Before we continue with debate, I would like to call attention to the pronouns specified on councillor [Last Name’s] placard.”
Clause 2.7.5.3 then mandated that if a councillor noticed the misgendering of another councillor, they call it to the attention of the Speaker on a Point of Personal Privilege. In the final, approved version of the standing rules, Council voted to change the language of the councillor clause from “[councillors] should call [the misgendering of another councillor] to the attention of the Speaker on a Point of Personal Privilege,” to “[councillors] may call this to the attention of the Speaker on a Point of Personal Privilege.”
Adam Gwiazda-Amsel, VP External at SSMU, was in favour of the change. “I argued that this wording change offered an avenue for recourse, but did not impose this obligation on councillors given that the person being misgendered might not want to call attention to it,” he wrote to the Daily. “In my comments, I encouraged councillors to ask one another if they’d like to be spoken up for.”
In addition, they removed clause 2.7.5.2, which required the Speaker to address the misgendering. Gwiazda-Amsel elaborated on his reasoning in supporting this change. “The clause which mandates the speaker to call out misgendering would produce an incredibly uncomfortable environment for the person being misgendered, in case they did not want to call attention to it,” he explained.
This suggestion was first given by the SSMU Gender Neutral Language Researcher at a meeting of Council in September 2018. At this meeting, they explained the procedures they were proposing: “councillors must address each other formally, usually in the form of councillor last name, and avoid referring to one another using third person pronouns to promote a cordial environment,” they said.
Other Council News
Also acknowledged were the appointments of four new members to the Board of Directors, two of whom (councillors Bhutkar and Wright) are filling the role immediately as Interim Directors, while the other two (councillors Chan and Fakih) will enter the role on November 15.
A number of announcements were made as well. Importantly, several Committees are now open for applications for members-at-large, notably the Equity Committee (via the Equity Committee Facebook event) as well as the Library Improvement Fund Committee (which can be found at https://ua.ssmu.ca/libraries/). Additionally, elections for First Year Council have begun, and students can now access nomination kits for the Clubs and Services Representative position (available on SSMUís Facebook page). Furthermore, it was announced that a number of motions regarding the climate change emergency would be brought to faculty and department councils in the near future.
Finally, it was noted that the SSMU General Manager, Ryan Hughes, had unfortunately resigned. He had worked at SSMU for the past seven years.
This article has been corrected to clarify that the four new appointments were to the SSMU Board of Directors, not the Board of Governors. The Daily regrets this error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
MCLIU Updates Members in General Assembly
On September 13, the McGill Course Lecturers and Instructors Union (MCLIU) held its second General Assembly (GA) of the year in Leacock 232. On the agenda was the approval of the previous GA’s minutes, MCLIU President Raad Jassim’s report, the report of the Union’s finances for the first six months of the year, and the report of the Chair of the Bargaining Committee, to which the bulk of the GA was dedicated.
The MCLIU has been in negotiations with its employer, McGill University, since June 2018. The Union’s first collective agreement was ratified in 2015, and they are currently negotiating their second collective agreement (the first was set to expire in October 2018). Their primary issue with the agreement is Clause 15.03, which they argue the University has purposefully misinterpreted in order to increase external hiring and limit their teaching opportunities.
Even though mediation on article 15.03 was scheduled for July 24 of this year, it ultimately did not happen. “After waiting for two years,” President Jassim explained, “this is the second time that article 15.03 arbitration has been cancelled because of the employer” (the first time it was cancelled, McGill’s lawyer was apparently sick).
“The employer is using every article in the book to stall, to delay, to object,” he said to union members in his report. “But we will teach them there is democracy, and there is justice […] It takes a long time, but you will be here for a long time. Management will change – you won’t.”
New Delegates Appointed
After the President’s report – and the subsequent presentation on the Union’s finances – more than 15 new delegates were appointed to the Union. There are now about 30 of them total, from a variety of schools and departments. The delegate system, which was set up in 2013, is a crucial connection between the Union and members’ respective departments.
Per the MCLIU’s website, “delegates act as a direct link between the Union and their departments, and thus play an essential role in ensuring that the Union continues to represent the interests of its members.”
As the motion to approve the new delegates passed, Vice-President Ahmad Munir told them, “You are the Union; you are our force.”
Member Grievances
Nick Papatheodorakos, Grievance Officer and Chair of the Bargaining Committee, then provided a review of different issues Union members had recently brought forth.
One of these grievances was the distribution of courses to members with lower seniority, but Papatheodorakos says it’s being resolved. He explained, “they recognized that you must respect the preference of the member – so if you have [a ranked list of four] courses, they should give you the first one if you’re next in the seniority list to get courses” rather than the fourth-preferred course.
In addition, Papatheodorakos spoke to a practice that certain hiring units have been employing in order to bypass the limit on the number of PhD students hired under clause 15.03. According to him, some hiring units have been putting out calls to PhD students to submit specific course proposals.
“So there’ll be five PhD students submitting a course proposal,” he explains, “and then they’d pick one – the one that they wanted, and in most cases, it was the one that was of the chair or of somebody pretty high up who needed some research done.” That course would then be posted on a 48-hour short posting, and everyone would be invited to apply. “But the problem is that that course was tailored for one individual,” he says. The MCLIU has reportedly filed a grievance on this issue, and will go through arbitration.
“They’re capping out on their reserve clause under 15.03,” Papatheodorakos said, “and so to expand it, they’re doing calls for course ideas so they can kind of swing around the back door and create another 15.03 list on their own.”
Negotiations and Conciliation Report
As the Chair of the Bargaining Committee, Papatheodorakos then presented a detailed report on the status of the Union’s negotiations and the clauses the University has and has not budged on.
One of the clauses the University did concede on was the addition of clause 15.03.03, which would inform MCLIU members what courses are going to be reserved for external hires – including professionals and PhD students – under article 15.03 earlier than they previously had been informed.
“What was happening is we’d only find out which courses were reserved and allocated to professionals or PhD students a month after the semester started,” Papatheodorakos explained. “But by that time […] there would be a lot of time wasted. It created anxiety amongst our membership, and it created stress and anxiety with the hiring units.”
Now, MCLIU members will be informed of which courses are reserved at the beginning of each course allocation period – June 1, October 1, and February 1.
Another clause the University conceded on was article 21.06, extending the amount of time that Union members can file a complaint of harassment from 90 days to two years.
Clauses at Issue
While certain clauses passed without relative contention, the MCLIU still has a number of issues with the collective agreement that the University is not budging on.
One of these was article 2.03 – the definition of “Course Lecturer.” Papatheodorakos maintained in the GA that even though the Principal has publicly stated that Course Lecturers are faculty, the bargaining team for the University refuses to recognize this.
“They fear […] that if we get the word ‘faculty’ in there, we’ll suddenly be demanding full professorship tenure-track appointments for some strange reason,” he explained. On the topic of academic freedom – in line with article 3.05 entitling Course Lecturers to “freedom of conscience and teaching” – the University has also not budged.
“We asked for academic freedom – we tried to explain to them why it’s important, [but] they did not want to understand or they just were playing dumb,” Papatheodorakos said. According to him, one member even thought conceding this would mean course lecturers would be able to change the class from 13 weeks to six.
Another article the University has been increasingly persistent on is 6.11, regarding the provision of free office space for the Union. “We’ve had no demands for this,” Papatheodorakos said, “but for some reason this is something they’re doing with all the unions – they’re insisting on us signing a lease without having seen the lease. Everytime we ask them to see the lease, they say ‘Oh, it’s not ready yet.’”
But the University may have ulterior motives for removing the Union from Peel Street. “There’s rumours that they’re going to basically be selling or knocking down these buildings on 515 Pins and the row houses on Peel,” Papatheodorakos added.
Final Comments
As the GA wrapped up, MCLIU introduced their newest member to the Executive Committee – Fabienne Cyrius, the Interim Communication and Mobilization Officer. She has worked for McGill for 10 years, lecturing in the Faculty of Management.
“When it comes to mobilization, it really depends on each one of us,” Cyrius said. “Our force really comes with numbers.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
