The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
On August 18, Hawai’i Senator Kalani English spoke out against the construction of the Thirty-Meter Telescope (TMT) on the top of Mauna Kea, the tallest peak in Hawai’i, and a mountain considered sacred to Native Hawaiians.Senator English stated, “the Thirty-Meter Telescope controversy atop Mauna Kea is not a new issue. It is a part of a forty-year struggle to address mismanagement by the University of Hawai’i of a site considered sacred and environmentally significant.”
Former State Representative Kaniela Ing has also expressed his objection to the TMT,citing massive environmental destruction as a result of similar projects in the past. “What I keep hearing is, ‘It’s just a telescope, it’s not a pipeline’ – no,” says Ing. “This is an 18-story massive structure that has a footprint of at least six football fields in a county that only allows 6-story buildings. And it’s in a conservation district. So even if […] you care about the environment at all, this is a really dangerous precedent and our Mauna has already seen oil spills from past telescopes.”
Mauna Kea is a sacred burial and ceremonial site, known as the piko, or “umbilical cord” of Kānaka Maoli, the Indigenous people of Hawai’i. On July 10th, after the construction of the TMT was announced to begin the week of July 15, a group of activists arrived at the base of Mauna Kea to peacefully protest the $1.4 billion project and protect Mauna Kea from further desecration. The protesters included Native Hawaiians known as kūpuna, or “elders,” and k’iai, or “protectors.” For the past six weeks, between 1,000 and 2,000 anti-TMT activists have gathered and camped at the base of the mountain,blocking the Mauna Kea Access Road.
On July 17, police in riot gear arrested 35 kūpuna, who were protesting peacefully by blocking construction vehicles from passing through the access road. The kūpuna were released shortly after and charged with “obstruction of government operations.” That same day, Hawai’i governor David Ige issued an emergency order that granted greater authority to police to remove activists from Mauna Kea.
The TMT, if built, would be the world’s largest telescope, situated on a 13,796-foot summit. However, Indigenous activists and k’iai emphasize that this project would further desecrate Mauna Kea, as the mountain is already home to 13 telescopes in 12 research facilities. Since 1964, the land on which these facilities were built has been managed by the University of Hawai’i, which leases the land from the State of Hawai’i for $1 a year, and subleases this land to multi-national, government funded research facilities for the same amount. The university originally leased the area for the purpose of building one telescope, but has since mismanaged the land and ignored the concerns and protests of Native Hawaiians.
Pua Case, a Native Hawaiian activist who has been fighting against the construction of the TMT for the past decade, shared on Democracy Now! that despite failing to meet the eight criteria required to build in a conservation zone, the TMT project permit was approved by the Hawai’i Supreme Court in 2018. Case also clarifies that Native Hawaiians are not against science, as the media often suggests, but against the destruction and desecration of a sacred mountain. Kēhau Lyons, another Native Hawaiian activist, agrees: “Hawaiians are not anti-science, we are anti-desecration.”
Anti-TMT activists also emphasize that their demonstrations are part of a greater struggle for Indigenous sovereignty, as well as ongoing resistance against colonialism. This resistance extends back to 1893, when the US government illegally invaded Hawai’i, overthrew the Hawaiian government, and violently stole the land from Kānaka Maoli. Activists highlight the ways in which the TMT project exemplifies how the US continues to benefit from colonial violence enacted against Native Hawaiians, the historic suppression of Native Hawaiian culture and language, and the continuous desecration of Indigenous land. In the 1970s, a period known as the Hawaiian Renaissance was marked by Indigenous resistance and political activism as Native Hawaiians fought for autonomy and sovereignty, as well as an end to the US military occupation of the island of Kaho`olawe. The island was being used as a target for bombing drills, a practice the US military only ended in the 1990s. Some Native Hawaiians who were present at the protests in the 1970s are also present at the demonstrations on Mauna Kea today.
From Standing Rock to Wet’suwet’en, many more activists defending sacred Indigenous land and water across the globe have expressed solidarity with those at Mauna Kea. As the Indigenous resistance against TMT continues, the defenders of Mauna Kea encourage those abroad to stand in solidarity with their struggle against the desecration of sacred land and for Indigenous sovereignty.
Indigenous activists have also encouraged students from universities that are members of The Association of Canadian Universities for Research in Astronomy (ACURA), such as McGill, to urge their universities to divest from the TMT. Ashley Bach, former president of Indigenous Student Alliance at McGill, stated, “just because it isn’t happening in Canada, doesn’t mean that it doesn’t matter.” Eve Tuck, a professor at the University of Toronto, added, “universities cannot claim to be reconciling with Indigenous communities when they are using armed police to intimidate, arrest, and threaten Indigenous peoples in the name of research.”
For more information on Mauna Kea and how to get involved, visit protectmaunakea.net 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Improvements to “Rez Project” in Full Swing
The newly relaunched program called “Our Shared Spaces” — formerly known as “Rez Project” — has been running for 16 years, building community and fostering equitable living among first year students as they enter university, and residence, for the first time. First created by a group of McGill Floor Fellows, the project aims to support student development and create space for diverse experiences and environments to coexist. This fall, the program is extending beyond its usual audience and evolving in accessibility, content, and the students it reaches.
Equity Education Programs Manager Eve Finley described the past year as the newest chapter in the program — all of the proposed changes and resources are coming together this fall. One of the most important changes is how the program gets funded. In the summer of 2018, the project moved from being a student housing program, to being under the jurisdiction of the Office of the Dean of Students. It receives funding from that office, as well as from Bill 151, implemented on campus by Provost Angela Campbell.
With this increase in funding, Our Shared Spaces is now able to employ a mix of 20 graduate and undergraduate students. As of last year, these are now paid positions in contrast to a handful of paid and over 100 student volunteer facilitators that previously ran the program.
The paid positions allow for a more in-depth training, as well as the ability to hire more facilitators from a variety of backgrounds and experiences. In addition, they can now offer workshops in languages other than English, such as French and Mandarin. Similarly, multilingual glossaries are being created and will be available for all students.
With regards to the name change, it came out of conversations and dialogue concerning the appropriateness of the use of the word “rez,” as it is a common colloquial word for Indigenous reservations. In addition to the misplaced meaning of the name, Finley described it as an inaccurate fit for what the project has evolved into.
“We chose ‘Our Shared Spaces’ because it sounds like what the program is,” Finley explained. “We want it to be about holding space for students to talk about how they can build more inclusive and just communities: how they can share spaces.” The name was also a suggestion of the students, which Finely explained exemplifies the spirit of the program, being created exclusively by and for them.
In addition, the project is growing outside of residences this year, holding workshops for off-campus first year undergraduate students as well as first-years entering the school of medicine. The project will also be exploring new collaborations with Black History Month, Indigenous Awareness Week, and Queer History Month. Another initiative they’re working on is in conjunction with the McGill Office of Religious and Spiritual Life (MORSL) — they hope to provide community spaces for discourse around the impacts of Quebec Bill 21 on students, especially those that are visibly religious. Developments in new programs, such as those in the school of medicine, came directly from the students themselves. The equity committee in the faculty of medicine firmly expressed a desire and need for this kind of education. Finley explained that the focus of the current expansions — and all those moving forward — is to respond where students are expressing a need for facilitated conversations in shared community spaces. Charlene Lewis-Sutherland, Equity Education Program Administrator, spoke about plans to expand and cement the presence of facilitators through Q&As and opportunities for impromptu conversations on campus. These efforts carry the community spaces beyond just two workshops and allow conversations to be had throughout the year and across campus.
The formulation of the residence workshops has also changed, switching when they take place in order to increase their impact on students. Lewis-Sutherland explained that the workshops now begin with race and Indigenous identity, in order to solidify the sense of community and respect for the spaces they can now create and share.
“It’s important for [entering students] to learn what it means to create a community with people who are from different backgrounds and different experiences — what it means to share that space. Having a conversation about race, and a conversation about the realities of the land they are on — it’s important to have right off the bat.”
The workshops on sexuality, sexual violence, and consent are now in the winter term, to emphasize consent as an “ongoing conversation.” By touching on it in modules early in the year, and elaborating in later workshops, Lewis-Sutherland emphasized the ability for students to get into more in-depth dialogues as the year goes on. In addition to the reformed sexuality and sexual violence workshops, educational events focusing on allowing space for students to discuss equity and social justice will be offered throughout the year.
In speaking about the growth of the program, Pedagogy and Development Coordinator Christelle Tessono stressed that, “it’s so interesting to see a community project to be so strongly backed by the administration, while also maintaining its core values of being supportive of students.”
Above all, the coordinators emphasized the core values of the project throughout its evolution: “Everything we do is written and created by students. Because student centeredness means that students need to have a voice as to what is relevant, what is important, and what makes sense to them. Students need to be at the helm of these conversations, what they’re about, and how they happen. And this will continue as long as the program does.”
Students who would like to learn more about Our Shared Spaces, or any student groups who are interested in developing workshop series, can reach them at their website or on Instagram.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
And Where to Find Them on Campus
In October of 2016, SSMU’s legislative council passed a policy on the provision of free menstrual hygiene products. Shortly after, the student fee for such products passed in SSMU’s 2016 Fall Referendum, with more than 80 per cent of students voting in favor. The fee costs students 90 cents per semester, and it’s not opt-outable.
Since then, various executive teams have come and gone, and while some progress has been made in providing these free products, there’s still confusion about their availability and location.
So, what exactly is the status of free menstrual products on campus, and where can you find them?
Accessing the products
Free menstrual hygiene products—tampons and pads—are provided in baskets and dispensers across campus. A map showing all the locations of the products that SSMU provides was sent out earlier this year in February, and it’s available online.
However, SSMU is trying to move away from providing these specific types baskets, and move towards dispensers. According to SSMU’s general manager Ryan Hughes, around half of the baskets for the menstrual hygiene products were stolen. SSMU President Bryan Buraga added that “a lot of money” is being used to replace the baskets. In spite of this, a basket still remains in the SSMU office, in eyesight of the receptionist at the front desk.
This fall, if you see baskets containing menstrual hygiene products on campus, it’s not likely that they’re being supplied by SSMU. Healthy McGill, a group offering “peer-led wellness supports to McGill students,” provides free menstrual hygiene products as well–they’re available in a variety of locations across campus, although not in washrooms.Though the original policy calls for collaboration between Healthy McGill and SSMU’s VP Internal, Sanchi Bhalla, they did not state that they were coordinating at this time.
Currently, dispensers for free menstrual hygiene products are available in McConnell Engineering, Strathcona, the Sir Arthur Currie Memorial Gymnasium, the University Centre, 3471 Peel, and Chancellor Day Hall. On the map provided by SSMU, there are points indicating the availability of dispensers in McLennan and Redpath, and these should be partially completed by the time school starts, according to VP University Affairs Madeline Wilson. This is despite the fact that the installation faced several delays–they were initially unsure if the dispensers would be installed by the time school started.
Per Wilson, “the installers themselves had actually been ordered for awhile and had been waiting at SSMU, but the library was a bit hesitant to cooperate with us initially.” In her statement, Wilson established that the reason for the library’s previous lack of cooperation is unclear, but she has confirmation that the installation will be completed in the women’s washrooms by the beginning of the school year.
Availability in men’s and all-gender washrooms
As for the men’s washrooms in McLennan and Redpath, Wilson tells the Daily via email that the installation should be completed by mid-September. The products, she says, will be accessible in plexiglass dispensers, which SSMU has decided to purchase instead of providing the old baskets.
Per Buraga, this “new system of dispensers” will be bolted to the wall, with an opening where people can access the products. “That way if students would like to get more than one product at a time, that’s perfectly fine, they just won’t take the basket with them.”
Wilson explains that since they didn’t order enough of the old type of dispenser for all of the washrooms in the library, they will need to install the new, plexiglass dispensers in the men’s washrooms.
“Our goal is to have dispensers in as many washrooms as possible throughout campus,” Buraga says.
As of now, there’s a gender-neutral washroom in the annexed Brown building and University Centre that provides free menstrual hygiene products. (A full list of gender-neutral washrooms across campus can be found on the website for McGill’s Branches Program. While dispensers have been approved and built in the gendered washrooms of McConnell Engineering, Strathcona (science building), the Sir Arthur Currie Memorial Gymnasium, the University Centre, 3471 Peel, and Chancellor Day Hall, only the University Centre and Chancellor Day Hall have gender-neutral washrooms.
The future of these products
According to Wilson, the next proposed dispensers may be installed in the Music Building and Library. This semester, Buraga says that SSMU is planning a campaign to raise awareness of the availability of free menstrual hygiene products on campus.
As for the University Centre, when it supposedly reopens next year, the men’s and women’s washrooms that previously provided these products should be available for students there, too.
In regards to the possibility of the university paying for the provision of free menstrual hygiene products, VP External Adam Gwiazda-Amsel tells the Daily via email that although they haven’t had this conversation with the administration yet, “it is worth us building up the program so we have a stronger argument for its value to the McGill community.”
But they don’t plan to stop advocating at the university level. Gwiazda-Amsel says that he would be open to petitioning the McGill’s city councillor “in November, after the borough election, in case Alex Norris takes a run at Mayor,” in attempts to get funding from the city government.
One of the major organizations lobbying for free menstrual hygiene products is En Regle, a group of three McGill medical students that launched their campaign in May of this year. According to CBC, one of the medical students “submitted a petition to the National Assembly that demanded free menstrual products be offered in Quebec schools,” calling for initiatives similar to those passed in British Columbia.
SSMU has been “in support of [En Regle] for the past couple of months [since] they launched their campaign in late May,” says Wilson. “I look forward to working with them in the course of the year to expand that campaign.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Here’s What They Have to Say
This fall, we reached out to the SSMU executives to learn about their goals for the year, what challenges they’re expecting, the effect of the last semester’s base fee increase on their portfolio, and to hear about their specific roles. Here’s what they had to say.
President – Bryan Buraga
Priorities: “My role is to support the other SSMU executives in their work and ensure that things run smoothly behind the scenes […] Among other things, my priorities include getting a Fall Reading Break at McGill, getting McGill to divest from fossil fuels, and revising the SSMU’s governing documents and structure.”
Anticipated difficulties: “The University Centre will be closed for another semester. Beside the financial strain that will impose on the SSMU, ensuring that we will still be able to provide space for student groups will continue to be a challenge. Convincing McGill’s Board of Governors to divest its endowment from fossil fuels will also be another challenge, [and] being able to have a healthy work-school-life balance will be a challenge for me.”
Effect of the SSMU Membership Fee Increase: “With the passage of the increase of the SSMU Membership Fee, the SSMU was able to hire a Governance Manager, a full-time staff member whose primary task is to help our governing bodies […] with their administrative workload. In the past, the SSMU President has had to bear the brunt of this work, taking many hours away from other initiatives or tasks […] This increase has also allowed me to commission more research and hire more student staff.”
Relationship with the administration: “I would describe my relationship with the McGill administration as cordial […] It is important to be able to discuss important student issues directly with the people that have the power to effect the changes at McGill that we wish to see, so having a good working relationship with these administrators will go a long way.”
VP Student Life – Billy Kawasaki
Priorities: “Last year, there were some confusion about what the expectations were for clubs […] and this led to sanctions. This year, we are working on implementing a club portal […] that should make it easier for student groups to understand the requirements and to fulfil them. […] I am [also] working on raising awareness about the [mental health] resources available, such as the Eating Disorder Resource and Awareness Centre.”
Anticipated difficulties: “With Schulich Library closing, the Leacock building renovations, and the lack of the university centre, there is a serious space shortage on campus. We are working with the various departments, such as Athletics, Residence, Special Events and Enrollment services in order to find as much space as possible for student group activities.”
Effect of the SSMU Membership Fee Increase: “[It’s] led to the hiring of the Clubs and Services Coordinator. This position is instrumental as she is organizing the club workshop, administering the sanctions process, and will help with other club governance. Traditionally, the office of the Vice-President (Student Life) is quite charged […], and this is much needed support.”
Plan to address last year’s club sanctions: “This year, we are putting a lot of work in educating student groups of what the requirements are […] The CS Coordinator and I are working on creating comprehensive and easily accessible resources, such as Google classrooms, and consolidating information so that everyone is aware of the requirements. Furthermore, I intend to review the sanctions process.”
VP Finance – Samuel Haward
Priorities: “My main priorities for the year are: working with the Vice-President (Student Life) to ensure that clubs’ requirements are standardized and resources are easily available to club Execs.; revising the Society’s Internal Regulations to match the current practices of the Society and its Services; [and] collaborating with Student Services to see if it is possible to reduce the premiums that international students pay for health insurance.”
Anticipated difficulties: “The cost of renting space downtown is incredibly high […] Club banking is another huge task that we need to take on early in the academic year. This is the first full year with RBC, so the process of trying to get everything up and running is brand new.”
Effect of the SSMU Membership Fee Increase: “Directly within the Finance portfolio there will be six student staff members in Fall 2019, up from two in Fall 2018 […] The additional staff will [also] make a significant difference for club banking, reimbursement/payment requests and enhance the detail and frequency of financial reporting.”
Plan to address last year’s club sanctions: “I’m working with the Vice President (Student Life) and Clubs and Services Coordinator to create and develop resources that will be available to clubs year-round. The finance workshop this year will also contain complete information on event declaration and insurance requests. Last (but not least!) one of the new student staff positions in the finance department will be dedicated to supporting the club execs.”
VP External – Adam Gwiazda-Amsel
Priorities: “I mostly want to ensure that McGill students are able to connect with Montreal, and that Montreal students are effectively engaged […] this is of course inextricable from political participation, so I’m looking at increasing levels of consciousness around issues that McGill students find important.”
Anticipated difficulties: “Provincial representation is always a challenge – it’s almost impossible to get the government’s ear on anything unless we collaborate with other student unions, but students have historically had mixed feelings about joining a federation of associations […] I also haven’t found too many avenues to reach off-campus students, but I’m looking forward to working with Campus Life & Engagement.”
Effect of the SSMU Membership Fee Increase: “So far, I’ve worked to expand our outreach capacity when it comes to student consciousness, so look out for people giving talks at GAs and faculty councils […] The increase also allowed for an increase in capital expenditures […] if we work toward housing projects like Concordia’s Woodnote, students will have to pay less per semester in an Affordable Student Housing Fee.”
SSMU and Bill 21: “[SSMU has] condemn[ed] this interpretation of laicity, which is discriminatory, misguided, and incompatible with our stated values […] We will be supporting and participating in solidarity with groups on campus and around Quebec […] We’ll also make sure that, whenever we work with other student unions and federations, we push them to understand that this is as much of a ‘student issue’ as something like affordable education.”
VP University Affairs – Madeline Wilson
Priorities: “Forcing McGill to rethink the way it governs itself. This involves increasing student representation on university committees, calling out and dismantling hostile governance environments where they (so often) occur, and publicly holding the administration accountable.”
Anticipated difficulties: “Universities are intentionally designed to resist change. So that’ll be a difficulty. Also, as a person, I’m terrified of burnout and tired of institutional power dynamics!”
Effect of the SSMU Membership Fee Increase: “Commission[ing] more research. Current UA researchers are exploring student assessment and accommodation policies, anti-sexual violence advocacy, and the university tenure process. Summer research on the first generation student experience has just wrapped up, and will be published shortly.”
Equity at McGill: “Overall, McGill needs to work a lot harder to put its money where its mouth is […] For example, a key pillar in McGill’s Strategic Academic Plan is ‘openness to the world’, which involves attracting socioeconomically diverse international students, yet the administration also celebrated the government’s recent full deregulation of international tuition, […] disproportionately disadvantaging lower and middle class international students.”
And within SSMU: “As an institution, SSMU has historically cultivated a brand of toxic masculinity and careerism that is frankly unacceptable […] The second issue that SSMU faces is in the usage of our Equity Policy and treatment of our equity work at SSMU, which is historically devalued […] I’ll work with our Equity Commissioners to take a hard look at the Equity Policy. Also, for the first time, we’re making Equity Training mandatory for SSMU Councilors, Senators and Clubs & Services exec.”
VP Internal – Sanchi Bhalla
Priorities: “Broadly, increased involvement! Specifically, higher listserv readership, more alcohol-optional events, a potential collaboration between the first year council, the inter-rez council, and COMunity, and more people being aware of what SSMU is and how it operates. I am […] revamping the listserv to be more visual-heavy than text-heavy and running a couple of alternative events during frosh.”
Anticipated difficulties: “The Shatner building was a hub of student-life and one of the only non-library interfaculty spaces on campus. Having that building (and Gerts) would definitely help boost student morale and spirit. Also, finding spaces to hold events – I really want to move the Halloween party back downtown.”
Effect of the SSMU Membership Fee Increase: “The allocation towards increased staff allowed us to hire a Communications Coordinator and she and I have been working together to improve SSMU’s social media presence and come up with a cohesive image.”
Dry student events: “[We plan to make sure] there is more than just water or Coke present as a alcohol-free substitute. For people who choose not to drink, it isn’t fair that they’re stuck with that while their friends have shelves worth of drink ingredients to pick from. Mocktails exist!”
These interviews have been edited for length and clarity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
