The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Community advocates rally against the privatization of the Royal Victoria Hospital
Concerned members of the Milton-Parc community gathered in front of the Royal Victoria Hospital on September 4 for a demonstration against the potential privatization of the iconic landmark.
The march and demonstration was organized by the Milton Parc Citizens’ Committee, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU), and the Community Council of Peter-McGill. Dozens of people participated, marching from the hospital to Léo-Pariseau/Lucia Kowaluk Park, in an act of “symbolic occupation of Pine avenue,” according to the Facebook page for the event.
The Royal Victoria Hospital was decommissioned in 2015, and the Société québécoise des infrastructures (SQI) has been tasked with developing a plan for the future of the building, excluding the half that has been claimed by McGill University. On the web page for the project, the SQI claims the site “is now opening up to new vocations which will restore [it] to the fundamental role it has played in the organization of society.”
The hospital buildings are crucial in providing shelter to homeless people in the area as many shelters in the city have closed due to COVID-19. Because of its size and resources, it is also used to isolate homeless patients who have contracted the virus to minimize the spread in homeless communities. Mayor Valerie Plante has announced that the site will remain a shelter until March 31, 2021.
The primary concern of protestors is the lack of public consultation in research for the project. There has been one consultation between the SQI and the Milton Parc Citizens’ Committee, and an information session with the Community Council Peter-McGill and the SQI. But the community has not had an official opportunity to share their ideas and concerns with the SQI in a public forum outside of these two small meetings.
“As with many other projects being considered in the metropolitan area, deciding the Royal Victoria’s fate must be done with an eye to the intense gentrification disenfranchising low-income communities, those experiencing homelessness, and those longing for a united community with enough space to host services and activities,” stated the organizers on Facebook.
The organizers also believe that the original intentions of the founders should be upheld; “the social vocation that the founders outlined in the deed of transfer and the fact that the site was built primarily as healthcare or housing (in particular for women) must be at the forefront of any decision,” stated the event description. The descendants of the original benefactors of the site agree that there should be no privatization of the landmark.
 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
AGSEM Raises Concerns with Draft Policy in Review
Over the course of the past year, McGill has undertaken a review of its former Policy Concerning the Rights of Students with Disabilities. The proposed new document, which received feedback over the summer from individual stakeholders as well as related organizations, is called the Policy Concerning the Right to Accommodation for Students with Disabilities.
The change in name reflects a shift in the content of the new policy: it focuses primarily on defining and outlining specifically the right to accommodation for students with disabilities, as well as the minimum legal requirements that the University must meet, rather than defining and outlining the rights of students with disabilities at McGill holistically.
Exemplifying these changes, the old policy mandated the University to clearly inform all potential applicants, as well as the community at large, of the services provided to students with disabilities. This requirement is not included in the new policy draft.
As an active student union on campus, the Association for Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM) is a key stakeholder in this policy. In their review of the draft, AGSEM makes note of several areas of concern, including the legalistic focus of the document, its applicability, and the resulting burden on students to self-advocate.
Regarding the newly-defined scope of the policy, AGSEM expressed concern over its narrow focus on academic accommodations as it relates to the University’s legal obligations to students with disabilities.
“The University has additional moral obligations (including a duty of care) towards disabled students that go beyond law,” AGSEM wrote in their review of the policy. “If the University is to claim to be one that includes disabled students, the University should consider how it must support disabled students’ integrity, ability to fully participate in University life, and more.”
AGSEM’s report also noted that the new draft policy excludes pregnancy in its defined scope of applicability, meaning that students who are pregnant would not be allowed to seek academic accommodations under this specific policy.
“[The policy] mischaracterizes and has a very narrow scope of disability,” AGSEM wrote in response. “In many legal contexts, pregnancy needs disability accommodations.”
Emphasized throughout AGSEM’s review are their concerns over students’ responsibility to provide (and thus ability to acquire) the necessary medical documentation to receive accommodations.
The new section on “Responsibilities” as outlined in the draft policy also mentions that students must “undertake a reasonable degree of self-advocacy.” In the examples provided to explain “self-advocacy,” the policy suggests that students “discuss directly course-based accommodations with course instructors,” implying that in order to receive accommodations, they must disclose medical conditions to their professors. AGSEM highlighted the inclusion of this suggestion, and noted that “students should not need to disclose medical conditions to teaching staff in order to receive accommodations.”
In the latter half of the review, AGSEM also took note of the University’s rhetoric around accommodations for students with disabilities. The draft policy states, “In accordance with the law, the University has an obligation to a) provide reasonable accommodation b) to students presenting with Disability-related barriers c) who request accommodation and provide Appropriate Documentation, d) but is only required to provide such a reasonable accommodation to the point of undue hardship.”
The term “undue hardship” is later defined as “accommodations that are likely to result in any of the following: a) Impingement upon the core competencies of a course or program of study; b) Significant risks to the health and safety of the student or others; C) Substantial costs that put the University as a whole at risk.”
In response to this language used by the University, AGSEM wrote in its report, “Disability accommodations framed as something that might upset the ‘core competencies of a course or program of study’ is ableist,” adding that “accommodating disabled students is not in conflict with academic excellence, and framing it as such is disingenuous, playing into negative stereotypes about disabled students.”
While the online form to submit feedback on the Policy Concerning the Right to Accommodation for Students with Disabilities has closed, the draft will be brought to Senate during the Fall 2020 semester.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
