The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Experts say cancellation is indicative of anti-Black racism in the province
CW: police brutality, anti-Black racism, gun violence 
Earlier this month, musicians, music fans, and organizers eagerly awaited the second annual LVL UP Digital and Music Lab in Laval, an event held over the course of three evenings featuring digital art installations and performances from hip hop artists. Returning after a year-long hiatus, the festival was set to take place from September 17 to September 19. Quebec rappers Loud, Souldia, and rap group 5sang14 were set to headline the event, and innovative installations from artists such as Max Boutin and Sabrina Ratté were to be featured. 
On September 9, however, it was announced that the festival would be cancelled at the request of Laval’s public security department. In a September 10 statement, Service de police de Laval (SPL) chief Jean-François Roussell defended the decision, claiming that artists at the festival were promoting “firearm culture” and attracting “criminal individuals from the street gangs.” He claimed that there have been 32 shooting incidents this year in Laval, and didn’t want to incite “conflict between street gangs.” Recent shootings, which have received a significant amount of attention in the media, have led city officials to grant the SPL an additional $1.2 million in funding. 
The Daily spoke with several experts on the hip hop genre and its cultural context to understand the greater implications of the festival’s cancellation. 
Hip Hop in Montreal and Quebec
Hip hop music and culture was introduced in Quebec in the late ‘70s after its inception in South Bronx, NYC. Quebec rap initially mimicked the style of American rap, but by the early ‘90s, Quebec rappers had developed a style unique to the province that utilized both French and English and heavily featured Quebec slang. In an interview with the Daily, Philippe Néméh Nombré, PhD candidate in sociology at UDeM, explained that Quebecois hip hop and rap remained underground until the late ‘90s when artists like Sans Pression, Dubmatique, and Muzion began to enter the mainstream. 
Néméh-Nombré added that artists of this generation dominated the genre until fairly recently, but within the past decade there has been an influx of white hip hop artists making music and gaining recognition, shifting the genre. “What happened at that point was that we distinguished what was good hip hop and what was violent hip hop,” according to Néméh-Nombré, “What came to be violent was hip hop that was produced by Black people, mostly, but marginalized people more broadly.” 
Anthony Mclachlan, graduate student at Concordia University, also articulates the division of hip hop culture in Quebec into two segments: “le Rap Keb” and street rap. Le Rap Keb is considered to be “more white Quebecois” and “cleaner and more polished,” while street rap is considered more “gritty” and most likely performed by racialized groups, according to Mclachlan. 
Although symbolic, this segmentation has dire consequences for artists and their material survival. Néméh-Nombré explains that the difference between “good” and “bad” hip hop determines which artists are played on the radio, are invited to play shows, and so on. “Hip hop artists who are considered street or violent do not get the same kind of exposure and therefore can hardly live off their music, as opposed to rap [musicians who are] now considered listenable.” It is essential to examine the significance of race in LVL UP’s cancellation, according to Néméh-Nombré; hip hop is seen as a “kind of music that is associated with Black people, [who] are [seen as] the de facto dangerous in so many ways.”
Policing and Surveillance of Hip Hop
Hip hop music and culture has had a longstanding issue with law enforcement since its inception, explains Mclachlan. He elaborates that the justification for its policing is not grounded in the culture, music, or dancing, but the undesirable crowds and disorder the genre is perceived to attract. “A really good example is at the LVL UP festival,” he says, “In Laval there’s been an increase in gun violence, and as a result […] Chief Jean-Francois Roussell felt that it would be good to shut down this festival just because some of the artists do promote gun violence in their lyrics.” The lyrical content of hip hop music, he explains, is subject to a form of policing that no other music genre is. Hip hop lyrics are subject to judicial processes, such that they can be used to justify policing; they have been seen as a confession, threats, proof of gang association, and proof of intention, per Mclachlan. He states that other music genres, like country and emo, that dispel violent and misogynistic ideas aren’t subject to the same level of critique and surveillance. 
In Quebec, lyrical content in hip hop has historically been seen as indicative of intent rather than artistic expression. Since its inception, the genre has been viewed as pathologically violent. Mclachlan explained that in the early ‘80s in Montreal, there was an increase in violent, anti-Black groups (such as skinheads) and consequently many Black communities organized themselves against these targeted attacks; “These groups became labelled as street gangs” he says, which “engendered a latent long standing suspicion and fear of not the music created by the pioneers of the Hip Hop genre, but by the individuals, creators, and audiences themselves, which persists to this day as we can see from Inspector Roussell’s comments and justification.” 
Policing of the genre in the province remains incredibly pertinent to this day. Famously, in 2012, The Pioneer bar in Pointe-Claire Quebec had its liquor license revoked and reinstated on the condition that they were not to hold any more hip hop concerts at the venue. 
The festival’s cancellation came at a time of alleged rise in crime and consequent media attention across jurisdictions in Quebec. Ted Rutland, associate professor at Concordia University, articulates this phenomenon as a “crisis narrative” – whereby the media exaggerates the extent of the problem, implies the problem is a crisis and necessitates immediate action, and consequently more resources are given to police to stop the problem in the short-term. A crisis narrative benefits the police, he explains, because there’s an idea that police repression works immediately, as it often culminates in very visible actions like the cancellation of the LVL UP festival. He adds that we’ve seen this narrative play out, considering that both the Laval and Montreal police departments have received millions more in funding over the past months. “There are all kinds of things that can be done to […] reduce violence in general and to reduce gun violence in particular, and it requires a whole series of things,” Rutland explains, “almost none of which involve the police.” 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Indigenous performers and speakers reflect on colonialism, sustainability
McGill celebrated its 10th annual Indigenous Awareness Weeks (IAWs) online from September 13 to 24. This year featured programming run by Indigenous knowledge keepers from across Turtle Island spanning a multitude of topics, including traditional medicines, wellness, environmental sustainability, reconciliation within post-secondary institutions, and the realities of Indigenous students in colonial institutions. Many of the events focused on food sustainability and sovereignty, as well as connections to the land and what it provides.
The opening ceremonies began on September 13 with the Ohen:ton Karihwatehkwen (The Words Before All Else) by Kanien’kehá:ka elder Otsi’tsaken:ra Patton.In a later event, the meaning of the Ohen:ton Karihwatehkwen was explored further, as well as other cultural practices and teachings, by Otsi’tsaken:ra and Niioie:ren Patton. “Humans, we need to take the fur of the deer to make clothing so we won’t get cold. We need to eat the meat of those animals so we can survive. And on and on and on it goes, those are the things that they give us,” said Otsi’tsaken:ra Patton. “So when we talk of the opening, we give thanks to life, and all the things that give us life. We came from the earth, and the earth is our mother.”
The ceremony closed with artistic performances from two Indigenous artists. Beatrice Deer, an award-winning Inuk singer, performed her song “Takugiursugit (The First Time I Saw You).” Craig Commanda, an Anishnaabe multi-disciplinary artist – he works in beadwork, poetry, music and sound, and filmmaking – from Kitigan Zibi First Nation, performed a musical composition, “For the Children,” “in dedication to the spirits of the children lost to residential schools.”
Kanien’kehá:ka Knowledge Keeper Elaine Delaronde and Kanien’kehá:ka student Brooke Rice hosted a medicinal plant walk on MacDonald campus. Delaronde and Rice provided recipes, medicinal uses, and personal anecdotes for each plant they found. Delaronde emphasized the importance of protecting the environment and the interconnected relationship between people and the environment: “We treat the earth like our mother. It grows everything. We have everything we need.”
Another medicinal plant walk was hosted by Abénaki lands manager Michel Durand Nolett on September 20. It took place in the McGill-owned Gault Nature Reserve, similarly teaching uses for native plants along with historical context about their use. Both these walks took place on land owned by McGill University – it is important to note that the Gault Nature Reserve was not open to cultural use by the Abénaki people until January 2021. This action was taken to recognize McGill’s 52 Calls to Action, created in 2017 in response to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada; so far, only seven have been completed, according to the university’s call to action webpage.
On the subject of sustainability and the environment, Kanien’kehá:ka Faith Keeper Ka’nahsohon Deer gave a talk about Indigenous worldviews and the Seventh Generation Principle – a land stewardship concept that focuses on living life and preserving the environment for the benefit and protection of the next seven generations. Deer noted how colonialism and Christian spirituality negatively impacted human connections with the land, and how returning to Indigenous traditional knowledge is imperative to protecting the environment.
On September 14, a roundtable discussed the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP). The panelists consisted of five Indigenous researchers and representatives from what are currently known as Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the US on how UNDRIP has been considered, implemented, and ignored in their respective communities.
Another roundtable for Indigenous students was the Student Health and Wellness Kitchen Table Conversation held on September 16. Current and former Indigenous students at McGill shared the highs and lows of their experiences at the institution. Some shared that they struggled to adjust to university life, others that they felt isolated, especially as one of very few Indigenous students on campus. However, the panelists shared their positive experiences in rediscovering and embracing traditional knowledge, and reconsidering their perspectives and ideas on education.
For Wahéhshon Shiann Whitebean, a Kanien’kehá:ka PhD candidate in Educational Studies and a Vanier Scholar, researching the impacts of Indian Day Schools for her thesis required healing. “It was the first time I was working on every level – mentally, emotionally and spiritually – at the same time. I learned to value my family and community, in what we’ve been through and who we are, in a much different way.”
This year’s IAWs closed with a virtual powwow, celebrating the 20th anniversary of McGill’s “First Pow Wow.” Although unable to come together in person, dancers were invited to share videos of performances.
Kanien’kehá:ka activist and artist Ellen Gabriel reflected on the organization of McGill’s first powwow, as well as her experience working at First Peoples House, 20 years later.“When I worked at First Peoples House, I did my best to try and support the students who were attending McGill, and make them feel at home,” she said, adding that she wanted to create “a safe place [for students] to be who they were, and not as an object of curiosity which I think sometimes we [feel like] because we’ve been so researched to death.”
She also shared her thoughts on reconciliation in post-secondary institutions: “The way Indigenous people want to see change in these institutions, it has to come with education and dialogue and discussion and sometimes that change is not welcomed.”
Recordings of most of the events can be accessed on the IAW’s website (the National Building Reconciliation Forum Workshops were not recorded).
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
