The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Policy passed to the Board of Directors to be ratified
On Tuesday, February 16, SSMU held its Winter 2021 General Assembly. Remarkably, the GA reached its quorum of 350 people and, for part of the meeting, held official GA status, meaning that any votes during those portions of the meeting would be binding. The most time consuming topic of discussion was the Motion Regarding the Adoption of the Divest for Human Rights Policy, which was submitted by petition. The motion sought to “expand the SSMU’s commitment to leadership on matters of social justice and human rights by establishing” a campaign urging McGill to divest from companies “which enable and profit from multiple forms of systemic violence, including settler-colonial land theft, environmental destruction, war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.” The corporations listed in the appendix of the motion are TC Energy Corporation (and therefore the Coastal GasLink Pipeline), Lockheed Martin, Re/Max, Oshkosh Corporation, Puma, Foot Locker, Nordstrom, and Kohl’s. 
The motion generated much discussion from attendees of the General Assembly, both in favour of and against its contents. Most controversial was the topic of divestment from Re/Max, which the motions states “sells real estate in illegal Israeli settlements on stolen Palestinian land, thereby facilitating and profiting from the transfer of Israeli settlers into occupied Palestinian territory by the Israeli government,” and Oshkosh Corporation, “whose vehicles are used to transport the soldiers and weapons of the Israeli military.” Discussion lasted for approximately two and half hours. Though the motion focused on military activity and the corporations’ operations on Palestinian land, much of the discussion centred concerns that a divestment campaign would lead to an increase in antisemitism on campus, due to a belief that the motion specifically targeted Israel. Multiple attendees, including VP University Affairs Brooklyn Frizzle, responded by explaining that the motion targeted specific corporations and not nations as a whole. 
The assembly moved to vote on the motion at approximately 9:00 p.m. EST. At this time, a number of participants left the GA, therefore causing the loss of quorum and turning the assembly into a consultative forum, meaning that votes would not be binding and the motion would have to be passed to the Legislative Council. Upon voting, the motion passed and was tabled to be discussed at the following week’s Legislative Council meeting. 
During the February 25 Legislative Council meeting, the motion was presented by VP External Ayo Ogunremi, who explained that the motion is intended to expand SSMU’s commitment to social justice and human rights by participating in divestment campaigns concerning several companies in which McGill is invested. He also noted that the “significant” amount of interest which students showed in the motion was important for SSMU representatives to consider while voting on the motion. 
Following Ogunremi’s introduction was a question period, which began with Management Representative Noah Gundermann asking movers of the motion to identify who they consulted in creating the motion. Maya Garfinkel, who moved the motion by petition, responded that the motion’s creators began their consultations by discussing with students, SSMU representatives, and student organizations such as Divest McGill and Climate Justice Action McGill (CJAM). Ogunremi added that the “Consultations Completed” section of the motion specifies that consultations were conducted with SSMU’s Governance Manager, President, and Communications Manager. He also stated that the motion had been reviewed and endorsed by SSMU’s Student Equity Committee.
Gundermann further questioned Ogunremi and Garfinkel, asking whether members of McGill administration or human rights experts had been consulted on the motion. According to Ogunremi, no McGill administrators were consulted, and though there was no “direct consultation” with human rights experts, sources and testimony from such experts are cited within the motion. Garfinkel claimed that there is precedent for approving similar policies despite a lack of consultation with McGill administration or human rights experts: the “Motion Regarding a Policy on Harmful Military Technology” had been passed at the Legislative Council just two weeks prior, without movers being questioned about such consultations, she pointed out. 
The debate period for the motion began with a pre-recorded statement from a student. The speaker asserted that the motion “creates a false and misleading parallel between the complex Israeli-Palestinian conflict and human rights concerns worldwide.” They claimed that the other countries mentioned in the motion are “incomparable” to Israel, and characterized the “anti-Zionist elements” of the clauses concerning Israel as antisemitic. The student further argued that the motion was associated with the Boycott, Divest and Sanctions (BDS) movement, making it a “fundamental violation of SSMU’s commitment to leadership in matters of human rights and social justice.” They speculated that the adoption of the motion would “jeopardize the safety and well-being of students,” claiming that Jewish students on campus saw an increase in antisemitism “following the many anti-Israel occurrences at McGill.”
Members of the Legislative Council expressed concern over the motion’s political content. Medical Representative Benson Wan explained that he felt the motion violated the Medical Student Society’s (MSS) Policy on General Council Positions and Press Releases, which holds that MSS representatives must survey members of the MSS via referendum or general assembly before taking political positions. Arts Representative Libby Williamson claimed that she had spoken to many constituents who felt that SSMU was neglecting student concerns by focusing on political issues. Additionally, Williamson characterized the motion as controversial, and claimed that divestment from Israel is unjustified: “the clauses that focus on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict attempt to create parallels between Israel and Palestine and other human rights concerns worldwide. [These parallels] do not exist and are harmful to imply.” Similarly, Dentistry Representative Tom Lee claimed that his constituents were largely opposed to the motion, on the grounds that it “disproportionately focuses on Israeli-Palestinian conflicts,” and may set a precedent for SSMU supporting the BDS movement. 
However, Frizzle claimed that they had never seen students with a higher level of engagement or interest than in the passage of this motion. “As democratic representatives, our mandate is clear: this is a policy represented by the membership […] I believe it is our responsibility as councillors not to be swayed by what I see as misinformation.” Likewise, Ogunremi described student interest in the motion as “extraordinary,” and said that SSMU executives have a responsibility to support marginalized communities from across the world. Member of the gallery Simone Bobrow expressed frustration with the claim that the motion was irrelevant to student concerns, saying that Palestinian students “have faced discrimination on campus as a result of [the Israel-Palestine] conflict.”
Councillor Gundermann also expressed opposition to the motion. He claimed that SSMU has no reason to divest from Lockheed-Martin – which the motion identifies as “the developer of weapons […] that has been used in violent conflicts in over 15 countries –” because the purchase of weapons should be “in the hands of governments.” He also took issue with divestment from the Oshkosh corporation, claiming that Oshkosh has been “internationally recognized as ethical,” and ultimately characterized the motion as “misleading and biased.” 
Supporters of the motion argued that it was not intended to perpetuate antisemitism or single out the state of Israel. Mover Noah Fisher said that the motion should not be interpreted as denouncing the state of Israel as a whole, as it only focuses on Re/max’s use of occupied Palestinian territory and not the entire state. “I find it insulting to suggest that the main way to oppose [antisemitism] is to fight individuals who are simply trying to end an occupation. I can guarantee that most of the instances of antisemitism that I’ve experienced, if not all of them, have not involved individuals trying to end an occupation,” he said, explaining that opposing human rights efforts would not help to combat antisemitism on campus. Similarly, Frizzle noted that the motion does not contain references to any individual nation, nor to Israeli corporations. Member of the gallery Ghida Malawi pointed out that the motion has no affiliation with BDS, and expressed frustration that councillors were conflating BDS with antisemitism. She also asked why councillors were claiming that Israel had been singled out, when human rights violations in other countries were also cited in the motion.
Garfinkel also spoke about her experiences with antisemitism: “As a Jewish student, the antisemitism that I’m concerned about is not coming from movements like [the motion and BDS].” She also said that “criticizing the occupation [of Palestine] is not the same as criticizing Israel’s right to exist.” She characterized some councillor’s treatments of the motion as insulting, and asked, “What claim for Palestinian human rights would this legislative council not take issue with?”
Clubs Representative Hussain Awan further expressed support for the motion, and said that he had been “dumbfounded” by some criticisms of the motion. He argued that portraying movers of the motion as “closeted BDS activists” was “wild speculation,” and further explained that he had seen much student interest in the many human rights issues addressed by the motion. 
After about one and a half hours of discussion, the motion was put to a vote. With 21 members in favor of the motion, 5 opposed, and 3 abstaining, the motion was passed.
A previous edition of this article erroneously stated that the policy had been adopted – in fact, the policy had not been adopted, but rather moved to the SSMU Board of Directors to be ratified. Additionally, the motion linked in the article was not the motion presented to Legislative Council, but rather an older version of the motion. The Daily regrets this error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Union for Gender Empowerment expresses concern over report’s recommendations
On January 21, the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU) released a financial report detailing the Finance Commissioner’s conclusions and recommendations following an investigation into SSMU student fees. The report aimed to address student concern about mandatory ancillary fees and primarily attributed the concern to “a lack of financial due-diligence” by student Services. The Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE) is among the Services accused of financial mismanagement, having too large of surpluses, and lacking transparency in spending. Following the report’s presentation at the Legislative Council meeting on January 28, the UGE expressed over Twitter the many ways in which they find the report to be erroneous and agreed to speak on the matter with the Daily. Mo Rajji Courtney, UGE’s Outreach Coordinator, and Jeanne Prevost, UGE’s Finance and Co-op Coordinator, share the belief that the report made “broad and misleading statements about the current financial affairs of SSMU Services,” according to Prevost. 
We agree that there are issues with the SSMU's financial operations, to the point where it has hindered our operations. However, the issues presented by this report and the recommendations being made will not fix the problems we are facing.
For one, the report alleged a misuse or underuse of funds by student Services without “indicating the frequency and the severity of the misappropriated funds,” Prevost said. Prevost further explained that “stringent financial guidelines” already exist within SSMU to “prevent misappropriation of funds” – “all requests must be approved by the Service, the VP Finance of SSMU, and the accounting department,” which would prevent misappropriation “if conducted properly.” Financial issues due to SSMU neglecting to follow protocol supports Rajji Courtney’s claim that student dissatisfaction is caused by internal governing issues. According to Rajji Courtney, SSMU “governance is a mess and there are scandals every year,” giving SSMU a “poor reputation” which causes the “pushback” over fees that “SSMU Services often face” – for Prevost and Rajji Courtney, the issues lie within SSMU governance and not in Services. Rajji Courtney believes the report implicated Services as a scapegoat, characterizing them as “financially burdensome and irresponsible when in fact [Services] cost a full time student less than $20 per academic year.”
Further, SSMU reports that they consulted student Services as part of their investigation, but according to Prevost, such consultations were made on short notice and the resulting feedback from student groups was not taken into account. “The ‘recommendations’ presented in those consultations meetings were the same that were included in the report,” according to Prevost. The current recommendations include expanding Legislative Council powers, as stipulated in recommendation #3, which would allow the council to “freeze,” “reduce,” and “terminate fees.” Prevost views this expanded power as “an existential threat to SSMU Services” because of its potential to “effectively defund” Services in their “entirety,” while “[disregarding] the will of the McGill Undergraduates who voted to support those initiatives.” Recommendation #4 of the report proposes a change to the process of introducing or increasing Ancillary fees, seemingly to end the practice of Services pulling “possible expenses out of thin air to justify” an increased budget and fee amount, in the words of the report. Prevost not only believes this to be a “hyperbolic statement that weakens the legitimacy of the report,” but claims that for most Services, this is simply not true. Prevost says:
“Speaking of our own Service, the UGE has only sought to increase its budget once since its consolidation in 2006, and the fee we proposed allowed us to go move from a bare-bones Services without the funds to upgrade its library nor purchase appropriate supplies for its cooperative, to one that has the funds to properly train volunteers, supplement our existing services, and expand into other areas.”
Prevost’s ultimate stance on the provided recommendations is that if they “were to go through as they currently stand, it would make daily operations of SSMU Services inherently more difficult.” Instead, Prevost proposes “hiring more personnel who review and respond to cheque requisition & purchase order forms” and instituting “mandatory review timelines.” Rajji Courtney also hopes that the recently hired Services Finance Coordinator will “enable the financial processes […] to move more quickly and smoothly.” Prevost claims that SSMU’s “highly unresponsive […] Financial chain of command” has hindered UGE’s operations.
Prevost also characterized SSMU’s student survey, which informed the findings and conclusions of the report, as problematic because it was not representative of the student body. The survey did not control for gender, year of study, program, faculty, or if the respondent was an undergrad at McGill. It also did not prevent users from submitting their responses multiple times. For UGE, “the survey is anecdotal at best.”
Although the “report itself doesn’t hold any power,” Rajji Courtney says, it does have influence “if it is taken seriously and considered as reputable” among the voting members of Legislative Council – especially when many “in SSMU governance have very little understanding of the work of Services,” yet are making decisions which could be “actively harmful to the functioning of the non-governing bodies of the SSMU.” 
Since the report’s publishing, UGE has spoken to some SSMU members and they were receptive of UGE’s criticisms, according to Rajji Courtney. Despite the newly hired Services Finance Coordinator, “the future of SSMU Services rests entirely in the hands of elected representatives and whether they decide to enact the recommendations included in the report,” says Prevost.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
