The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students express their concerns over University COVID-19 Guidelines
On February 23, university administration informed students that many in-person activities will resume in the Fall 2021 semester regardless of the status of coronavirus in Montreal. This early announcement follows a tumultuous year of unpredictable lockdown measures. While it seems like a step towards normalcy, the Daily spoke with many students who feel it is a risky decision on the part of the university.
With McGill being one of the most international schools in Canada, it must accommodate students worldwide. McGill’s announcement to increase in-person activities has several international students uncertain about getting into Canada to access in-person teaching due to border restrictions. Sharon Orkeh, a first year international student from Nigeria, told the Daily she plans to stay in Montreal for the summer, fearing she won’t be able to return for the fall semester. 
Despite Associate Provost Christopher Buddle’s claim that the university will work with faculties to accommodate students who are at risk of severe COVID-19 symptoms, it is unclear how the university will accommodate students’ needs. In an interview with the Daily, 2020-2021 SSMU president Jemark Earle expressed that while in-person activity may improve the mental health of the majority of students, those who are unable to attend in-person classes may feel excluded from the McGill community. Earle speculated that this could lead to a decline in their mental health. Sophia*, a second-year psychology student, was unsure that the return to campus would have a positive impact on students’ mental health: “I can’t imagine the adjustment struggles and stress it will put on students’ mental health and grades (as well as my own) come in-person teaching in the fall.” Furthermore, Sophia claimed that most students and professors “have adjusted at this point,” so a return to campus may not yield significant mental health benefits. Earle expresses that lots of planning will be necessary in order to fulfill McGill’s vision of increased in-person activities in the Fall 2021 semester but is not quite sure what this will look like yet. Additionally, SSMU president-elect Darshan Daryanani claimed that there has been a “lack of consultation with student groups” as university administration plans the return to in-person activities.
“I can’t imagine the adjustment struggles and stress it will put on students’ mental health and grades… come in-person teaching in the fall.”
Other students are simply cautious to trust McGill’s commitment to in-person activities. Annabel Hayes, a first-year science student, told the Daily that she is excited at the prospect of increased in-person activities, but said that it has “been a year of let downs” causing her to have reservations. In an email to the Daily, Sophia expressed that McGill made the announcement too soon and said that the university should have followed Concordia’s lead to wait until May for a decision. They pointed out that the reopening of schools in Quebec has led to an increase in COVID-19 cases, and worried that reopening McGill may similarly cause a rise in cases: “I can only imagine the severity of the consequences should we open up a school like McGill with 40,000 students.” The announcement also left some SSMU representatives shocked, as they were not informed of the university’s decisions prior to the announcement. This left Earle unable to respond to student’s questions and concerns immediately following the announcement. Daryanani highlighted that town halls and SSMU Senate meetings have often left students with “more questions than answers” about the fall semester. 
Finally, the most concerning aspect for many students is the safety precautions the university will take. McGill’s awareness for student’s physical and mental health needs has historically been unreliable, which makes several students wary that attending in-person activities won’t be safe. With the vaccine rollout for the fall so uncertain, and rising cases in Quebec, Sophia suggested the university wait “until [a] minimum of Winter 2022” to return to in-person activities.” Sophia says that safe schooling “relates to how safe Covid measures are and how many cases there are”. Sophia doesn’t think these indicators suggest that it is safe to make promises about in-person teaching for the 2021 fall semester.
However, several students, while cautious, are pleased by the announcement as it shows a turn in the tides of the brutal situation the university faces. First-year student Sharon Orkeh expressed excitement about the “possibilities” that will come along with in-person activities. Another student, Emily Roest, says she “has faith it will be somewhat better than this year.” According to Daryanani, all that students know for certain is that the Fall 2021 semester will not look like Fall 2020, but “neither will it look like Fall 2019.” 
To address the needs of the student body, Daryanani plans to host town hall meetings as “an open channel for feedback from students.” Additionally, SSMU recently circulated an open letter calling on university administrators to prohibit mandatory in-person lectures, increase transparency regarding masking policies, and provide a remote option for the Fall 2021 semester, among other things.
* Some names have been changed for anonymity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“RBC funds climate crisis,” organizers say
Content warning: police violence, anti-Indigenous violence 
Continue or go back to the main page
On Friday, August 20, organizers clad in jean jackets and bandannas which read “We are here to protect the water, stop Line 3,” gathered outside of the Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) at Place Ville-Marie. Their purpose was to bring awareness to RBC’s substantial funding of Enbridge’s Line 3 pipeline in Mní Sóta Makoce, or what is currently Minnesota. Though the pipeline has recently been publicized due to the Line 3 replacement project and the protests associated with it, Line 3 has been in existence since the 1960’s – it was the cause of America’s largest ever inland oil spill in 1991. Thus, demonstrators wrote the slogan “RBC funds climate crisis” in chalk outside of the RBC building to draw attention to the disastrous effects that pipelines have on the environment.
Organizers drew a connection between the fossil fuel industry and colonialism: “We recognize the connections between fossil fuels, colonialism, and extractionism,” they stated in a land acknowledgement. The land acknowledgement was followed by three speakers, each of whom spoke about the impact Line 3 would have on Indigenous communities and RBC’s role in the construction of the pipeline.
Catie Galbraith, a geography, environment, and Indigenous studies student, reflected on the varied dimensions of the pipeline’s impact. “Pipelines like Line 3 are deliberately routed through Indigenous communities,” they said, “where they inevitably poison water and land.” They pointed out that this damage would have a long-lasting effect on Indigenous communities; by tainting the land and water of Indigenous communities, the pipeline would threaten these communities’ ability to sustain themselves. That threat, according to Galbraith, makes pipelines more than just a money-maker for RBC  – they can also serve as a tool of dispossession.
“Pipelines like Line 3 are deliberately routed through Indigenous communities, where they inevitably poison water and land.”
After Galbraith, Zahur Ashrafuzzaman spoke about his experience at a Line 3 resistance camp and the environmental impact of pipelines, which he witnessed firsthand (though he clarified that, as he is not Indigenous, he cannot be a voice of the front lines). He described the effects of dewatering – the removal of groundwater from a construction site – on Indigenous communities living near Line 3. In June, Enbridge obtained a dewatering permit which allowed them to remove 4.9 billion gallons of water, despite the extreme drought conditions Minnesota was already weathering. Wild rice depends on wet conditions, and Indigenous communities near Line 3 depend upon wild rice, Ashrafuzzaman pointed out – thus, dewatering puts the livelihoods of Indigenous people at risk. He recounted the check-in visits which water protectors conducted to ensure that nearby Indigenous communities were still surviving: “it looks like [the rivers] are dying,” he said, because the rivers are so low.
Ashrafuzzaman then turned to RBC’s complicity in these environmental disasters. He spoke of RBC’s apparent support for the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, as they had sponsored Truth and Reconciliation Week 2021. However, he continued, “there can be no Truth and Reconciliation as long as there is extractionism.” As long as RBC continues to fund the pipeline, he concluded, they cannot  support truth and reconciliation.
Alongside the environmental damage wrought by pipelines upon Indigenous communities, the police force at protests also posed an imminent threat to water protectors, according to Ashrafuzzaman. “The procedure of arrest is designed to strip human dignity,” he said, as he described the treatment which police subjected him and other resistance campers to. They utilised rubber bullets, tear gas, and pepper balls, he claimed; “the whole project is genocidal violence.” He again reflected upon RBC’s supposed commitment to Truth and Reconciliation, asking, “how many of those bullets did RBC pay for?” Ultimately, the construction of pipelines is part of a larger colonial project by a violent colonial entity, he explained. Ashrafuzzaman concluded his turn by leading chants against the pipeline: “Step it up RBC, defund Line 3!”
Finally, Greg Mikkelson, a former McGill professor, spoke about the ways in which people can combat RBC and pipelines in general. Mikkelson argued that one of the best ways to fight Enbridge is to raise the costs of building pipelines: for example, calling on the company to dedicate more money to leak detection would disincentivize pipeline construction. He recommends visiting stopline3.org and rbcrevealed.com for more information on the pipeline construction; he also advocates for people to stop banking with RBC, CIBC, and the Bank of Montreal and to move their money to credit unions instead. For Montrealers in particular, he encouraged raising awareness of Line 9, a pipeline which runs from Quebec to Ontario. As Montreal’s mayoral elections will be taking place this fall, Mikkelson believes that raising awareness of Line 9 may prompt municipal politicians to commit to defunding pipeline construction. 
Mikkelson also explained the legal arguments against Enbridge pipelines. He mentioned the “rights of nature” approach, which confers rights upon the environment rather than treating land, water, and crops as property. For example, one recently-filed lawsuit lists wild rice as a plaintiff, as wild rice is endangered by pipelines. Mikkelson continued that ecosystems have been gaining legal rights in Indigenous nations, allowing Indigenous people to sue on behalf of the environment to protect resources. However, the next Wednesday, August 25, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied Indigenous activists’ petition against the Court of Appeals decision which allowed Enbridge to continue construction of the Line 3 pipeline.
The demonstration concluded with a screening of First Daughter and the Black Snake, a documentary chronicling the efforts of Winona LaDuke, an Anishinaabe activist who organized attempts to stop Line 3’s construction. Organizers encouraged attendees to donate to a fundraiser for Taysha Martineau, another water protector fighting against its construction. Additionally, organizers encourage donating to The Open Door, Native Women’s Shelter, and the First Peoples Justice Center of Montreal. 
Additionally, a march was held on Saturday, August 28, to stand in solidarity with Fairy Creek. Activists at Fairy Creek, a watershed in British Columbia where old-growth logging is conducted, aim to resist the deforestation of the province.

A previous version of this article erroneously quoted Ashrafuzzaman. These quotes have been updated for accuracy. The Daily regrets this error.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
