The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
“McGill continues to fail trans, non-binary, and gender-nonconforming students,” says student
When Rine Vieth, PhD candidate in Anthropology, went on campus for a doctor’s appointment on January 12, they noticed new restroom signs displayed on the third floor of the Brown Building. Doors that had once indicated the presence of single-stalled all-gender washrooms now featured additional labels – posters with gender-specific symbols, below a message that read “Prevention measures in effect.”
Vieth tweeted images of the signs and shared their frustration with what appeared to be the University’s “re-gendering” of the washrooms. 
“It just feels exhausting,” Vieth told the Daily. “[It’s] par for the course; yet another reason why I don’t feel comfortable accessing services at McGill. It’s a joke at this point.”
Ok, my other @mcgillu question is why bathrooms were re-gendered. As in, they got new gender-neutral signs in the Brown building, and now… (I mean, the all-gender sign is up, but now it's m/f signs next to each other.) @ugecollective @theSSMU @PGSSEquity just so you know. pic.twitter.com/NoDK7s5oKL
Vieth spoke with the Union for Gender Empowerment (UGE), who raised the issue with Kathleen Bateman, Associate Director of Health Promotion and Outreach at the Wellness Hub. Mo Rajji Courtney, Outreach Coordinator for the UGE, said that the new signage was “at best, confusing for trans and gender non-conforming students, and at worst, hostile.” 
Bateman explained to Rajji Courtney that the “re-gendering” had been an oversight. “People, likely janitorial or other staff, were given these signs and were told [to] put them up at their discretion. There were no formal decisions made,” Rajji Courtney shared with the Daily. 
McGill’s Media Relations Office confirmed that the signage has since been changed. “High traffic buildings have signage installed in common spaces […] indicating distancing, direction and other safety measures in relation to COVID-19,” the Office stated in an email exchange with the Daily. “The gender-neutral bathrooms in the Brown Building have not been re-labeled, and there are now gender-neutral signs, which have been replaced this week.”
More than just an oversight
“The disturbing thing is that McGill didn’t print out any COVID-specific all-gender signage,” Rajji Courtney tells the Daily. “We now know that the University didn’t make any decisions to re-gender the washrooms, but it still looked like it had. There’s a fear in that.”
All-gender washrooms tend to be much safer spaces for trans and gender non-conforming people, they explain, because it allows these students to avoid the harassment they often face in gender segregated spaces.  
“This oversight demonstrates that the University didn’t think of their trans and gender non-conforming students when making the signage. They didn’t think of our needs, or of how [the gendered posters] would make us feel,” says Rajji Courtney. “Afraid and excluded – those are not feelings that any student should have to [face] when they’re just trying to go to the bathroom.”
“As an institution, McGill continues to fail trans, non-binary, and gender-nonconforming students,” adds Vieth. 
The transphobia within McGill is systemic; I don’t read instances like these as “mistakes,” but as the predictable result of a lack of care for [these] students.

“When someone makes a complaint, or an article comes out, McGill administrators are quick to say it was a one-off thing. But it’s not just a mistake, or a surprise that comes [out of] nowhere. The transphobia within McGill is systemic; I don’t read instances like these as “mistakes,” but as the predictable result of a lack of care for [these] students. For all its talk about “wellness,” what would happen if Student Services decided to prioritize the wellness of all students, including the transgender, non-binary, and gender-nonconforming members of the McGill community? What if supporting us wasn’t seen as optional?”
Advocating for change
According to Rajji Courtney, McGill does not have a standardized process to help students voice their concerns and advocate for accessibility. Students can instead reach out to the UGE for support via email, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, or through a contact form on their website. “It’s our job to make sure that McGill is a trans-inclusive environment,” Rajji Courtney says. “That’s what the UGE aims to do.”
Vieth tells The Daily that while they aren’t optimistic that change will occur at the University anytime soon, their frustration is “based in a kind of optimism about what kind of place McGill can be.”
“I truly believe that McGill could do better, but I also believe that [the University’s] track record shows that it doesn’t want to. And until that track record changes, we’ll be stuck talking about trans people being able to use the bathroom in 2021.”
“It is up to all of us, especially allies, to make noise when we see trans-exclusionary practices at McGill, even if it’s just an oversight,” adds Rajji Courtney. “That’s the only way we can push McGill to become actively trans-inclusive, instead of allowing the University [to make] trans students an afterthought.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Farrow’s views make students feel “unsafe and marginalized,” letter says
On January 19, students from McGill’s Religious Studies Undergraduate Society (RSUS) published an open letter addressed to the School of Religious Studies condemning Professor Douglas Farrow. Dr. Farrow, a professor in the School of Religious Studies, has published a number of works condemning same-sex marriage and according to RS students has taught and promoted anti-LGBTQ+ ideas in his classes. 
According to the letter, Dr. Farrow has published a number of articles espousing “bigoted views” on gender and sexuality. Notably, in his book Nation of Bastards: Essays on the End of Marriage, Farrow refers to same-sex marriage as a “casualty” that has reduced the institutions of marriage and family. Additionally, in 2017, students at McGill protested on behalf of the trans community an event called “Gender Mainstreaming and Transgender” at which he was a panelist. At this event, Farrow discussed a webpage facilitated by himself called “Gender Mainstreaming.” RSUS commented that this website presented transphobic views and “discussed gender transition with outrageous comments” that are unfounded.
According to the RSUS, McGill not only allows but promotes Dr. Farrow’s work – several of his publications are currently on display in the Birks Building lobby. “It makes members of the LGBTQ+ community feel unsafe in and marginalized by the SRS and severely undermines the inclusivity of both the SRS and McGill at large,” writes the RSUS, in regards to Farrow’s publications. 
In all four of his syllabi for the 2019-2020 academic year, the letter continues, Dr. Farrow addresses McGill’s Preferred First Name Policy (PFNP) and states that “[no] one is required to adopt views, claims, or linguistic forms with which they disagree.” Although Farrow has the right to disagree with PFNP, as the RSUS explained, he cannot blatantly disregard a student’s rights to freely express gender identity nor can he circumvent McGill policy. “Names and pronouns are not preferred, they are required,”  the letter reads. 
Students from the RSUS are particularly concerned with the role that Farrow plays in the School of Religious Studies; three out of the four courses taught by him are required for the Bachelor of Theology (B. Th.) program. These mandatory classes are exclusively taught by Farrow. The RSUS raises concern regarding this in the letter: “The fact that Dr. Farrow teaches three mandatory classes is of great concern to the student body, as we would hope that both McGill and the SRS prioritize the wellbeing of their marginalized students.”
RSUS representatives also raised concerns about the course material in Dr. Farrow’s classes: “Dr. Farrow provides his students with a very particular perspective both on Christian theology and Christian understanding of gender and sexuality, which not only prevents a diverse learning environment, but also makes numerous students feel victimized by many of the views expressed by Dr. Farrow.”
“We want to stress that the letter does not attempt to encroach on Professor Farrow’s academic freedom, as he is fully allowed to express these opinions in his literature and in his free time,” comments Mateya Burney, VP Finance of the RSUS. In an interview with the Daily, she explained that “this becomes problematic when: 1. Students have attempted to debate/critique these opinions, and have received no room for discussion or critical analysis from the professor 2. A professor chooses to make these views part of his classroom discourse and does not engage in debate or conversation. Then students should not be forced to take this class to graduate.”
In the letter, RSUS representatives assert that in forcing Bachelor of Theology students to take classes taught by Farrow, LGBTQ+ students are forced into an environment that “denies the dignity of their identity and personhood.” For both those who identify as LGBTQ+ and for those exploring their own sexual and/or gender identity, Farrow’s “discriminatory language can be traumatic.” 
“We do not argue that Professor Farrow is entitled to his own opinions,” says Burney, “It is a problem, however, when these opinions are taught as fact and there is no room for criticism.”
RSUS students are calling on the School of Religious Studies to provide students greater flexibility in their course choice by assigning additional professors to the mandatory classes that are currently taught exclusively by Dr. Farrow, and remove his homophobic and transphobic publications from the Birks building lobby. 
The University has given no formal response to the letter, according to Burney. “Just as Dr. Farrow has the right to freedom of speech,” wrote the RSUS, “students have the right to a safe and inclusive learning environment.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
