The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Following up on the MNCS Naloxone and Harm Reduction Workshop
On October 18, McGill Nurses for Community Service (MNCS) held their biannual Naloxone and harm reduction workshop. Co-Presidents Viki Fiamegas and Zoe Chabot told the Daily that the workshop was created by past MNCS members in response to a gap between the nursing curriculum and what was happening with the opioid crisis. Naloxone is a medication which, through injection or nasal spray, is able to reverse the effects of an opioid overdose. For someone who does not have opioids in their system, Naloxone has no effect. According to Fiamegas and Chabot, becoming trained in administering Naloxone is fairly simple and essential to harm reduction. 
In the context of substance use, harm reduction is the practice of providing the resources to allow an individual to safely do so – acknowledging that “individuals coping with addiction and problematic substance use may not be in a position to remain abstinent from their substance of choice,” according to the Canadian Mental Health Association. Harm reduction means providing medical and social services to substance users without judgement in an effort to destigmatize drug addiction, applying a health-oriented approach rather than criminalization. Stigmatization as well as criminalization especially affects low income, unhoused drug users, as well as drug users with mental illness. 
Safe injection sites – supervised facilities that allow safe drug consumption – consist of rooms or booths where individuals are able to consume any substance they need to in a safe environment, reducing risk of overdose and disease transmission; “nurses or trained professionals are on hand to help assist them, whether that be in actually administering the substance […], assist them in the post-adminstration process, as well as providing resources on wound care and on how to decrease your consumption, if that’s what the individual wants,” Fiamegas said. Chabot added that safe injection sites provide clean needles and clean tourniquets, preventing the spread of blood-borne diseases that can be spread through injection and have been harmful in the opioid crisis (such as hepatitis and HIV). There are currently four safe injection sites in Montreal: CACTUS, Dopamine and Spectre de Rue are fixed, while L’anonyme is a mobile site that serves the Downtown, South-Central, Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, West-Central and South-west neighborhoods. 
In November 2020, Vancouver city council approved a motion demanding that the federal government decriminalize illicit drug possession in response to what Vancouver Mayor Kennedy Stewart predicted “to be the worst year yet for overdoses”of illicit drugs. Stewart stated that this approach was “urgently needed.” The proposed “Vancouver model” was submitted to Health Canada in May 2021, involving a higher criminalizing threshold amount, and instead connecting people with services to decrease substance abuse on a voluntary basis. However, the proposal has faced criticism for its lack of consultation with drug users – the Vancouver Area Network of Drug Users (VANDU) calls instead for complete elimination of threshold amounts, which would mean full decriminalization. 
Mylène Drouin, Montreal public health director, released a report in November 2020 which showed the increase of substance abuse in the Montreal area during the COVID-19 pandemic. This report, along with Vancouver’s motion, has led Montreal city councillors Marvin Rotrant and Christian Arseneault, joined by organizations involved in drug dependency, to push for the decriminalization of drug possession in a January 2021 council meeting. The Association des intervenants en dépendance du Québec (AIDQ), the Association québécoise pour la promotion de la santé des utilisateurs et utilisatrices de drogue (AQPSUD), Canadian Students for Sensible Drug Policy (CSSPD), and the Table des organismes communautaires montréalais de lutte contre le SIDA (TOMS) as well as the HIV Legal Network (HLN) urged “the City of Montréal to take concrete action to decriminalize the simple possession of drugs for personal use” and urged the Plante administration to support the City Councillors’ motion. 
The Public Health agency of Canada further echoed that the pandemic has exacerbated opioid-related harms – specifically due to decreased health service provisions. Fiamegas explained that many safe injection sites weren’t allowed to be open due to “essential service” restrictions, were open for shorter hours due to the curfew in Quebec, and were limited in the amount of people they could treat due to social distancing guidelines. In statistics specific to Ontario, pandemic opioid-related harms disproportionately impacted marginalized and racialized populations. 
Quebec’s national opioids overdose prevention and response strategy involved making naloxone kits available for free and without a prescription at any pharmacy. The injectable kits include two doses of naloxone, alcohol swabs, retractable safety syringes, a pair of nonlatex gloves, an instruction manual, and a mouth guard for potential mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Kits are also available with two doses of intranasal naloxone spray. Richard Davy shared a step-by-step instructional video with The Montreal Gazette on physical signs that can indicate a potential opioid overdose, how to administer Naloxone, and information on Naloxone kits. 
Montreal-based organizations committed to harm reduction include Plein Milieu, which works directly with harm reduction among drug users, the unhoused population and youth 12+, and Head and Hands, an organization that provides medical, legal and social services to Montreal youth. McGill specific harm reduction resources include MNCS, McGill Student Emergency Response Team, a group of student volunteers that provide free first aid services to the McGill and Montreal community, and McGill’s Making Drugs More Accurate, a campus organization that provides free drug checking kits. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Three major candidates battle for mayor
Just over one month following the conclusion of the Canadian federal election, Montrealers once again headed to the polls. In what was expected to be one of the closest elections in decades, three candidates vied for Montreal’s top job in the November 7 mayoral election. Here’s what you need to know:
The Candidates
Following an upset win that made her Montreal’s first ever elected female Mayor in 2017, Valérie Plante sought re-election for the first time. Plante had pulled off what many considered the improbable by defeating then incumbent Denis Coderre, despite trailing by as many as 14 percentage points early in the campaign. An activist turned politician, Plante started her career fighting against tuition hikes and hydraulic fracking before becoming Montreal City Councillor for Sainte-Marie and eventually Mayor. Plante serves as the leader of Projet Montréal.
Ensemble Montréal candidate Denis Coderre sought to become Montreal’s Mayor by challenging Valérie Plante for the second time. Coderre served as a Liberal Member of Canadian Parliament for Bourassa from 1997 to 2013 (where he briefly served as Immigration Minister), before launching a successful bid for Montreal’s top job in 2013. Serving as Mayor until 2017, Coderre lost re-election to Plante. By seeking a second term, Coderre looked to become the first Montreal Mayor in almost 50 years to win non-consecutive terms. Coderre serves as the leader of Ensemble Montréal.   
The youngest of the three frontrunners, Balarama Holness is a professional football player turned lawyer and political activist. Serving as leader of Mouvement Montréal, Holness played in the Canadian Football League for five years. Following retirement, he pursued a legal career, recently graduating from McGill University’s Faculty of Law. In 2017, while studying at McGill, he ran for borough mayor of Montréal-Nord (as a member of Plante’s Projet Montréal), losing to Ensemble Montréal’s Christine Black. If elected, Holness would have become Montreal’s first Mayor of colour.
The Economy 
Coderre has claimed he is  the “only party leader capable of bringing spending under control.” His economic plan uses a combination of price controls and relief funds to reduce municipal spending and provide support for small businesses. 
Ensemble Montréal, as reiterated by Coderre during Montréal’s English debate, cites a commitment to “not increase taxes above inflation” while also “capping… [the] increase… [of property taxes to] 2% for [2022].” Coderre and his team also pledged, if elected, to conduct an audit of all the city’s expenses in order “to reduce the debt affecting the metropolis.” Finally, Ensemble Montréal plans on setting aside $50 million for merchants’ associations and community groups. 
Leveraging her past two years as Mayor during the pandemic, Plante’s economic plan builds on her already implemented recovery measures – measures that froze the property tax rate and cut city spending throughout COVID-19. 
Projet Montréal now aims to continue recovery efforts by aligning property tax increases with the rate of inflation. Plante said her party will invest in the city, pledging an additional $16.7 million in funding to The Village, doubling its support to the homeless, and promising to spend $1 million on helping neighbourhood cinemas and artist studios if re-elected. 
Holness, comparatively, is pushing for a complete legal reimagination of Montreal, advocating it to receive “city-state status”; he argues that the move would grant the city more taxation powers. Mouvement Montréal is also proposing that Ville-Marie have its own borough mayor to “help better manage downtown.” Finally, Holness is advocating for the creation of “ tax exemption zones in [struggling] commercial sectors,” such as LaSalle. 
Policing 
Targeting a complete overhaul of the current system, Holness’ Mouvement Montréal envisions a plan where decreased poverty, increased infrastructure, and increased police training decreases crime.
“We are about mixed squadrons, we are about helping community organizations, better training for police, de-escalation,” said Holness in an October mayoral debate.  “There’s this idea that we can invest in firearms and police to solve these crimes and that is not the correct solution.” As part of his plan, Holness aims to mandate yearly training for all police officers, including specialization training for incidents of domestic violence. Mouvement Montréal also aims to reallocate some funding from the SPVM towards affordable housing and health services. 
Accusing both Holness and Plante of being “for defunding the police,” Coderre opposes Holness, arguing for an increased police force in favour of community outreach programs. 
To do so, Coderre plans on hiring 250 more police officers if elected, while also promising to double the number of psychosocial emergency and mobile reference support teams available in the city. His platform also pledges to purchase body cameras for all police officers within the first 100 days of their hire. Finally, Ensemble Montréal plans on improving lighting in public places like parks, while adding more security cameras at metro stations — where Coderre claims hate crimes are likely to occur. 
Incumbent Valérie Plante aims to strengthen community ties with police officers. Plante’s platform would require officers to serve in the same neighbourhood for at least three years, claiming that “community ties are a critical crime prevention tool.” Projet Montréal then plans to invest $5 million annually to support community organizations that “work in the prevention of violence and crime among young people and in urban safety.” Plante also supports equipping Montréal’s police officers with body cameras by 2022, and supports the creation of shelters for women who “are victims of violence.”
Housing 
Projet Montréal builds on their previous housing plan, advocating for what they claim is the continued success of the Montréal housing market. By using land already owned by Montreal — such as the former hippodrome, Louvain Est, and surplus land belonging to the federal government — Plante calls for the creation of 60,000 long term affordable housing units, including an additional 2,000 for students within 10 years; Projet Montréal defines “affordable” as costing 10 per cent below market price. Plante’s Projet Montréal also plans on renewing the Réflexe Montréal housing agreement, as well as allocating $100 million over 10 years towards acquiring land for social housing purposes. 
Expressing his belief that “Housing is a fundamental right,” Holness has spent the campaign lamenting “the Plante administration [for taking] 3.5 years to address the housing crisis.”
Mouvement Montréal also plans to build new affordable homes, to the tune of 30,000 (though the timeline has yet to be announced) while also proposing a provincial and federal tax credit for contractors that build affordable rental homes. A Holness administration would vow to close the loophole on the 20-20-20 bylaw. Finally, he plans on steadily increasing the city’s housing budget by  2 per cent each year between 2021 and 2025.
Coderre has attacked Plante’s 20-20-20 bylaw, suggesting that it is chasing developers away. He has instead proposed a plan to increase affordable housing by over 10,000 over the next four years. Ensemble Montréal, if elected, would also encourage the conversion of disused office towers to residential use, and invest $25 million in a social and community housing investment fund. Curtially, Denis Coderre is the only leading candidate that seeks to outright abolish the 20-20-20 bylaw; Plante stands by the bylaw while Holness seeks to close perceived loopholes. 
The French Language 
Balarama Holness is the only leading candidate that seeks to recognize Montreal as bilingual. The Mouvement Montréal plan includes the immediate translation of all government documents, reports, and publicly accessible information into both French and English languages. Holness also opposes Bill-96. 
Denis Coderre, during the French debate on October 21, deemed Holness’ bilingual proposal not acceptable. He supports Bill-96. 
Valérie Plante joins Coderre’s positions on both Bill-96 and Holness’ bilingual proposal, expressing her belief that Montréalers are “united by the French language.”
The Environment 
Ensemble Montréal, Projet Montréal, and Mouvement Montréal all pledge to continue combat climate change.
In a statement released to the general public, Coderre announced that “to join in the climate transition, Montrealers will have the wholehearted support of the Coderre-Gelly administration, who will fully assume its role in achieving carbon neutrality by 2045.” They also pledge to continue developing ecological urban farming on farmland in the West End and create neighbourhood markets in disadvantaged areas.
Similarly, Holness also plans for Montréal’s to achieve net neutrality by 2050 — the target date set by the Canadian government. He also vows to establish an Independent Advisory Council on Climate Justice to advise the Mayor on environmental policy, and to help with the implementation of the city’s climate plan.  
Valérie Plante’s Projet Montréal also envisions Montréal achieving net neutrality by 2050. Additionally, she plans on increasing the number of electric buses and city vehicles, and planting 500,000 trees by 2030.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
VP Internal asks the Daily not to investigate further
SSMU President Darshan Daryanani has been on a leave of absence since at least September 23, the date of the Legislative Council’s first meeting. Following a claim that he had been suspended from his position, the Daily reached out to SSMU executives, councillors,  and staff for comment. Despite the Executive Committee’s statement that they “have made a pact to not be afraid to change the system and call out toxic behaviour,” executives did not acknowledge the Daily’s question about whether Daryanani’s absence is related to allegations of gender-based discrimination.
Arts Representative and Steering Committee member Yara Coussa wrote that she could not comment on Daryanani’s absence. In response to the Daily’s inquiry about whether the leave of absence was related to allegations of microagressions and gender-based discrimination within SSMU, Coussa said that she could “neither corroborate or [sic] deny these claims,” and had not been made aware of such allegations in her capacity as Councillor or Steering Committee member. Likewise, VP University Affairs Claire Downie declined to comment, writing: “All I can say on the matter is that Daryanani is currently on leave.”
The Daily also contacted Speaker of Council and Steering Committee member Alexandre Ashkir. Although Steering Committee members are tasked with reinstating suspended Officers, Ashkir wrote that “As a part time employee uninvolved and uninterested in these matters, I have no comments on this topic.” Additionally, the HR Director of SSMU holds a position on SSMU’s Gendered and Sexual Violence Committee, but did not respond to the Daily’s request for comment.
VP Internal Sarah Paulin told the Daily that casual and permanent staff such as Ashkir “have nothing to do with the politics of the Society” and that the Daily should only look to executives for comment. “I understand that some of our answers may not be to your satisfaction, but that does not justify reaching out to people who have no implications on campus. I expect the cooperation of [the Daily] on this matter,” she wrote, disregarding the fact that many SSMU employees hold positions relevant to the suspension of Officers or instances of gender-based discrimination within SSMU. Moreover, as the Daily is an autonomous paper mandated to hold power to account, SSMU executives do not have authority to exercise oversight on Daily investigations. While Paulin confirmed that Daryanani was on a leave of absence, she said “For the sake of the president’s privacy, I would appreciate it if you [the Daily] leave it there.” 
In another email to the Daily, Paulin claimed that SSMU employees are contractually mandated not to speak with the press, and November 4 correspondence with an anonymous source revealed that SSMU staff had recently been instructed not to speak with campus media. A November 3 mass email from Paulin to SSMU’s casual staff that was leaked to the Daily stated that SSMU’s employee manual “dictates that [staff] cannot and must not speak to campus media;” the email contains no mention of the contractual obligation which Paulin claims to exist. She reiterated her expectation that employees avoid interacting with the press: “if [journalists] reach out to you in the future, please simply do not respond.”
According to a copy of the Casual Staff Employee Manual obtained by the Daily, “Employees are not permitted to address the media and must direct any public question or requests to the General Manager and the President.” It is unclear if this manual is contractually binding for employees, as the manual is a document separate and distinct from the Confidentiality Agreement, Job Description and general contract that all casual staff sign upon joining SSMU as an employee.  Regardless, this manual does not restrict the Daily’s  freedom to request comments from SSMU employees. Another casual employee sent the Daily an excerpt of the Confidentiality Agreement which must be signed by casual staff. The Agreement states that employees are “not to disclose or discuss [confidential information] with any other individual, corporation or entity […] without the prior written consent of the SSMU.” The Agreement defines confidential information as “all personal, proprietary, financial and operational information owned or managed by the SSMU and not otherwise accessible to the general public.” Again, this Agreement does not obligate the Daily to exclude non-executives from requests for comment over the course of an investigation.
Secretary-General Edyta Rogowska told the Daily that the October 7, 2021 meeting of the Board of Governors was not attended by any SSMU representative – she clarified that “the process to appoint a SSMU rep to serve on the Board is in progress.” Section 02, Article 8 of SSMU’s Internal Regulations of Governance stipulates that the SSMU Executive Committee must appoint a representative to Board meetings on a per-meeting basis if the President is unable to serve in that capacity. Executives did not respond to the Daily’s inquiry as to why the Executive Committee did not appoint a representative to the Board of Governors in Daryanani’s place.
The Daily will continue to investigate Daryanani’s absence. Please reach out to news@mcgilldaily.com if you have relevant tips or comments.

Note: below is the initial email which Paulin sent to the Daily. We have decided to reproduce the email in its entirety to assure readers that the Daily did not intentionally omit significant portions of Paulin’s email in an attempt to portray her response inaccurately. According to the Quebec Press Council Guide of Journalistic Ethics, all correspondence with a source is considered to be on-the-record unless the source requests otherwise.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
