The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Open letter denounces administration’s decision
On Friday, January 14, Deputy Provost of Student Life and Learning Fabrice Labeau released a statement confirming that McGill will resume on-campus teaching activities on Monday, January 24. Here is a breakdown of the top takeaways:
While Labeau acknowledged that students may be anxious about in-person activities, he noted that most COVID-19 cases in fully vaccinated individuals are not severe. University administration is confident that in-person activities are able to resume safely because of McGill’s reportedly high levels of vaccination and the “many other layers of protection” that have been implemented, he continued. Labeau wrote that the university will provide more updates and information throughout the next week; the Daily will continue to follow the situation as it unfolds.
Shortly after Labeau’s statement was released, an open letter written by second-year Arts student Lavinia Auhoma and edited by VP University Affairs Claire Downie began circulating online. The letter’s demands include:
Although Labeau wrote that administration has “been receiving many emails and getting other feedback,” Auhoma points out that “the McGill student body at large has not been consulted or surveyed” about the decision of when to return to campus. She also responds to Labeau’s statement that most COVID cases in fully vaccinated individuals are not severe: “An assumption that most students will not be seriously harmed if infected […] is ableist and contributes to McGill’s devaluing of disabled students and community members.” The letter goes on to point out that Concordia has made the decision to remain online until February 2, just as other Canadian universities have extended the duration of remote learning. In a reference to Labeau’s suggestion that students “do something relaxing […] Go outside, call a friend, meditate,” the letter concludes that “Going outside, meditating, and calling a friend is not enough when the University is systematically failing us.”
In an email statement to the Daily, Auhoma said that the response to the open letter has been “overwhelmingly supportive,” with over 600 signatures as of Saturday, January 15. “I understand the limitations of an open letter […] but it’s remarkable that […] people have been listening,” she wrote, commenting on students’ pessimism regarding online activism. 
Auhoma sympathized with students concerned about the drawbacks to remote learning: “I started school in the pandemic and got my ‘university experience’ taken away before it even began.” As such, she wrote that the university should be giving students the option of safely returning to school or continuing their studies online. She also worried that the university is pointing towards students’ mental health concerns as a justification for reopening school, without actually meeting students’ needs: “McGill needs to prove that they actually care about mental health by providing safety nets and accommodations.” 
Auhoma further criticized the claim that the Omicron variant is mild, characterizing it as “dangerously ableist […] speculative and harmful” rhetoric. She pointed out that regardless of the severity of the virus, most students likely want to avoid sickness; if school reopens and mass absenteeism ensues because of widespread illness, there is little point in returning, per Auhoma. Additionally, she expressed concern that McGill’s lack of flexibility will incentivize sick students to attend class, claiming that testimony collected through the form attached to the open letter included ill students concerned that they would be pressured to return to school before fully recovering. She encouraged members of the McGill community who want to advocate further to attend student union meetings or Q&A sessions with McGill administration, and to monitor the news.
McGill needs to prove that they actually care about mental health by providing safety nets and accommodations.
SSMU has begun some work to prepare for the return to campus – the VP University Affairs portfolio published a Google Form through which students can submit information about the in-person requirements of their courses. Responses are being compiled in a spreadsheet; according to the form, the project is intended to help students unable to attend school in-person to choose courses that meet their needs.
Additionally, SSMU’s Board of Directors passed a motion to allocate $8,000 towards the purchase of N95 or KN95 masks on January 6, as reported by The McGill Tribune. Details about this motion to come.
While Quebec currently only requires two doses of the vaccine for an individual to be considered “adequately protected,” the government will require three doses “once the entire population has had a chance to receive their booster shot.” Here’s how to receive or register your booster shot.
To receive your booster shot: book an appointment on Clic Santé by choosing the “COVID Vaccine – 3rd dose” option in the “Select a Service” menu; if you are not covered by RAMQ, choose “COVID Vaccine – Troubleshooting.” Alternatively, find a walk-in clinic on the Santé Montréal website.
To register a booster shot from outside of Quebec: schedule an appointment at a designated vaccination centre on Clic Santé by choosing the “COVID Vaccine – Troubleshooting” option in the “Select a Service” menu. Bring a piece of ID and proof of vaccination; once your vaccine has been verified, your passport will be updated.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Acknowledging those who have had serious complications due to COVID-19
The return to in-person teaching in Fall 2021 marked a return to “normalcy” – people were again seen walking around campus, community activities and events were held, and libraries were full. The decision to return to in-person has been contested since Summer 2021, yet conversation has focused more on the university’s policies and preparedness as opposed to the individuals affected by the virus.
“I know of a few deaths […] and several hospitalizations,” writes Rine Vieth, a graduate student at McGill, on Twitter. “I’m having convos with students who think that the McGill community has not been impacted by COVID-19.” This unawareness is clear – on the r/mcgill reddit thread, one user wrote “the (relatively very low) ‘risk’ of COVID doesn’t matter. COVID is more or less done. Grow up and stop hiding under the bed.”
Between August 2021 and January 2022, there have been 226 individual McGill students and employees who have tested positive for COVID-19 and were present on university campuses during their contagion period, according to the university. The number of overall cases impacting the McGill community is likely higher, as the COVID-19 case tracker does not take into account individual cases that were not present on campus.
One such example is Osama Alsamman, an employee in the IT and technical services department who passed away in December 2021. Ehab Lotayef, Alsamman’s manager in the IT and technical services department, explained to the Daily that Alsamman had only recently begun working for the university – his appointment became effective November 10, 2021. “I found [Alsamman] somebody with very high potential and high enthusiasm,” Lotayef commented. Thomas Chalmers, president of McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association, told the Daily that the union was “in the process of welcoming him as a new member when he passed.”
Lotayef explained the day that Alsamman was meant to begin at McGill, his daughter tested positive for COVID-19 – he explained he wouldn’t be able to come in, and began work from home. Two days later, Alsamman himself tested positive. “For a couple days, he was fatigued and down and couldn’t work,” said Lotayef, “but then he came back and he was very energetic and much more there […] I thought he would be [in the office] on Monday, that was the end of his quarantine.” After he was absent on Monday, Lotayef learned from those close to Alsamman that he had been admitted to an intensive care unit.
“Everybody started to say ‘he won’t make it,’” said Lotayef. Alsamman died only a couple days after being admitted to intensive care due to complications from the virus. “It was really devastating to me that I started to know him,” Lotayef said, “I knew he had a very young family, a two year and a four year old kid.”
Kristi Kouchakji, Secretary-General of the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS), explained in an email to the Daily that McGill’s case management doesn’t share information about reported cases due to confidentiality. As such, it can be difficult to ascertain the severity of positive cases – because of McGill’s reportedly high vaccination rates, many assume that COVID-19 cases in the McGill community are mild. “I’d also like to point out that COVID has had many indirect impacts on our members as well,” she wrote, “from members who’ve lost their non-academic jobs, members who’ve been stuck between waiting for study permit backlogs to clear and inflexible departments refusing remote accommodations, members in need of ongoing medical care for non-Covid purposes and who are struggling to access that care, […] members who went literally months without receiving their funding or their TA/RA/lecturer salaries because of Workday and related admin issues that were later blamed on the pandemic, etc.”
Earlier this month, François Shalom, a McGill employee, had his heart replacement surgery indefinitely postponed. The procedure was supposed to have taken place at the McGill University Health Center at the end of January, but was postponed due to a directive to cut back non-urgent surgeries to free up beds and staff. Shalom told CBC “It’s absolutely petrifying […] This is surgery to save my life.”
Announced January 14, McGill will return to in-person learning on January 24, whilst the rise in the Omicron variant has seen an unprecedented wave of hospitalizations – despite Labeau’s reassurance that hospitalizations and cases will “likely soon begin to stabilize.” On Friday, COVID-19 hospitalizations hit an all time high, surpassing 3,000 patients in hospitals with the coronavirus. “I’d like to take this opportunity to remind folks that ‘Omicron is mild’ really just means ‘if you’re vaccinated with three doses you probably won’t die,’” commented Kouchakji, “a so-called ‘mild’ case can still have serious long-term consequences.”
Following the University’s announcement, students renounced the decision to return to in-person in an open letter: “An assumption that most students will not be seriously harmed if infected with COVID-19 is ableist and contributes to McGill’s devaluing of diabled students and community members.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
