The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Assessing the Policy and Culture Around Sexual Violence at McGill
Content warning: mentions of rape and sexual assault
Continue or go back to the main page
This month, McGill will review the Policy Against Sexual Violence, which was last reviewed in March 2019. According to Émilie Marcotte, a Sexual Violence Response Advisor at the Office for Sexual Violence Response, Support and Education (OSVRSE), the upcoming review process will involve looking at the implementation of reports, evaluating whether the education and reporting processes have shown success, and making other recommended adjustments.
The last review, in March 2019, was a “big overhaul in the policy,” according to Marcotte. Bill 151, a Quebec law passed in December 2017, required all post-secondary institutions to adopt a policy to prevent sexual violence by January 1, 2019, and to implement it by September 2019. In 2019, McGill, UQAM, and several CEGEPs missed the adoption deadline. At the time, McGill Principal Suzanne Fortier told the Daily that the university did not miss the deadline set by the province, as McGill adopted a sexual violence policy in 2016. Regardless, Quebec Liberal MNA and former minister for higher education Hélène David – who put forth Bill 151 – called out institutions like McGill for lagging behind the province’s deadline, characterizing this lag as “unacceptable.”
McGill has formed an implementation committee in accordance with Section 9 of the current Policy. This committee is composed of various administrators, representatives from the Student Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMMS) and OSVRSE, and student representatives. As Marcotte told the Daily in an interview, “That [implementation] committee has been meeting on a regular basis for the past three years to evaluate the implementation of the policy [and] to make recommendations. And so the boarding group will be looking at those recommendations as well as the recommendations of the different stakeholder groups,” such as SSMU and the Post-Graduate Students’ Society (PGSS). The university is not soliciting student feedback beyond the presence of these stakeholder groups on the committee and Policy Working Group.
In Spring 2021, McGill launched the Office for Mediation and Reporting (OMR), which now serves as the main site to receive formal reports of sexual violence. Other resources for survivors currently include OSVRSE and SACOMSS. Since 2019, McGill has also implemented a mandatory sexual violence education program called “It Takes All of Us,” modelled after a course at Concordia University. This four-module program is online and all students, staff, and faculty are expected to complete it. Students have taken issue with the sexual violence education program since it was released. The recommended duration of the program is 45 minutes, but there are options that can allow students to complete the program in a matter of minutes. Incompletion of “It Takes All of Us” will result in a hold on add-drop functions for students. Students who have already registered for Winter courses are immune to this consequence, as well as students graduating at the end of the semester. It is unclear whether there is a consequence for staff and faculty.
In December 2020, five McGill students started a petition for the university to “take action” against a first-year male student they accused of sexual assault. Two of the five allegations included rape while the survivor was intoxicated. Within three days, the petition gained over 50,000 signatures. Throughout the investigation, the administration received several complaints about the ongoing presence of the accused student in residence and in classes. This is contrary to the current sexual violence policy, which states that a student that poses as a risk of harm to any member of the university community can be subject to pre-emptive disciplinary action – meaning it would be permissible to remove this student from residences and classes where survivors were present. 
McGill is bound by Quebec privacy laws, or the “code of silence,” to not share information on any particular case, ongoing investigation, or outcome related to allegations of sexual assault. Because of this, survivors are not informed of the nature of the sanctions imposed on the aggressor – or if the aggressor was sanctioned at all. The annual report on the sexual violence policy in 2020 – the same year as the aforementioned petition was distributed – states that the disciplinary measures imposed on aggressors that year included admonishment and conduct probation, formal reprimand, and orders to cease and desist communication and contact. The report also states that only eight of the nine found sexual violence cases were disciplined by McGill. 
Section 99 of Bill 64 will mandate institutions of higher education in Quebec to allow survivors to request information surrounding the details and outcomes of disciplinary processes on a confidential basis beginning in September 2023. However, it is unclear whether this new legislation will allow survivors to request information about past cases. Community members have been advocating for an end to the code of silence for a long time: an online petition to end the code began in Fall 2020, and Bill 64 was enacted a year later, in Fall 2021.
McGill’s sexual violence policy states that a “Special Investigator shall conduct and complete an investigation within 90 Days” of a report of sexual violence. When asked if this could change, Marcotte told the Daily that this time frame is not up to the university. The 90 day time frame is set by Quebec law for educational institutions to investigate reports of sexual violence. However, Marcotte added that “there are interim measures put in place to ensure the safety of the participants while they’re studying or working on campus. And that is something in which the person […] filing the complaint has a lot of say. They are asked what their concerns are, what their needs are, and what we need to be. But then also due to the code of conduct, they’re not going to know what’s happening on the other end.”
According to the current policy, reported cases are meant to be immediately filed with a special investigator trained in “trauma-informed processes and in the manner in which persons of diverse identities might experience Sexual Violence” and procedural fairness. According to Marcotte, McGill works with two law firms and has contracts with the firms to do sexual violence investigations.
There have been concerns about how COVID-19 has affected the response to sexual violence cases. Marcotte told the Daily, “I think it was obviously a surprise for everybody in terms of how serious the pandemic was. And there was an adjustment period that I think was felt there, as with any office in terms of moving online and continuing to offer services.” Marcotte added, “That said, there was no gap in services in terms of either offering support or helping people through the policy itself.” Prior to the pandemic, certain cases were done at a distance, according to Marcotte. “The person who is a survivor – the person filing the complaint – does not have to be a current McGill member. So, sometimes that meant that people who are in different cities or even countries could file a complaint if they wanted to. And so we’ve offered interviews via distance and support.” However, one survivor interviewed by the Daily last week explained that their case “fell through the cracks” at the onset of the pandemic.
According to the 2020 annual report, “12 investigations were completed within the 90-day delay set by the Policy. 4 investigations started in mid-March 2020, just as Quebec began lockdown measures, and exceeded the 90-day delay.”
In this current review of the Policy Against Sexual Violence,  representatives from various groups are involved in the “working group” process, according to the policy itself. These include OSVRSE, SACOMSS, Human Resources, SSMU, PGSS, and University Residences/Student Housing, among others. Each group is represented by just one representative, and the review of the policy is chaired by the Provost or a delegate. The working group also looks at recommendations made by the Implementation Committee, which contains student and staff representation.
The 2021 annual report on the sexual violence policy states that the March 2022 policy review “will be an important opportunity to strengthen the Policy and associated resources further.” It adds that “any proposed revisions to the Policy that result from this review process will be presented to Senate and the Board for review and approval.”
If you or someone you know has experienced sexual violence or harassment and needs support, you can contact:
Office for Sexual Violence Response, Support, and Education (OSVRSE)
Sexual Assault Centre of the McGill Students’ Society (SACOMSS)
Reporting Sexual Violence
Sexual Violence Support
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Students rally outside James Administration for Palestine Solidarity Policy
On March 25, students gathered in front of the James Administration Building in response to a Media Relations Office (MRO) email sent by Deputy Provost Fabrice Labeau on March 24 titled “SSMU referendum outcome.” In the announcement, Labeau expressed disappointment in the adoption of the Palestine Solidarity Policy and threatened to dissolve the university’s Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the Students’ Society of McGill University (SSMU). In a written press release, rally organizers expressed that “we cannot stay silent while the McGill administration attempts to blackmail our student union, and crush the democratic will of our student body!”
At the rally, calls for “Free, free, Palestine!,” “No peace on stolen land,” and “the students, united, will never be divided” bounced off the exterior walls of the James Administration Building, echoing through campus. Attendees waved Palestinian flags, while one individual mounted the scaffolding in front of the building’s entrance to lead the crowd in chants. Multiple speakers delivered speeches to the crowd, celebrating the passing of the Palestine Solidarity Policy, shaming the university, and encouraging SSMU to stand its ground. 
The Palestine Solidarity Policy was passed in the most recent SSMU referendum, announced March 21. The policy mandates that SSMU boycott corporations complicit in settler-colonial apartheid against Palestinians and advocate for the university to do the same, that SSMU campaign for the university to publicly condemn Canary Mission and other surveillance or smear campaigns against Palestinian and pro-Palestinian students, and that SSMU form a Palestine Solidarity Comittee, among other points. The referendum received a 71.4 per cent “yes” vote, meaning it was passed with a supermajority. 
“It’s the first initiative to actually represent and make Palestinian activists and their allies feel seen and supported on campus,” commented Erin*, an SPHR member, on the policy. They continued to tell the Daily that it’s the bare minimum that Palestinian activists are emboldened to “advocate without fear of repurcussions, fear of falling to a smear campaign, or just being blatantly doxxed.” 
In the MRO announcement, Labeau claimed that the policy echoes the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement. He continued to characterize it “as an initiative that can only bring more division to our community,” arguing that the policy will “create excessive polarization in our community, encourage a culture of ostracization and disrespect due to students’ identity,” and is “in contradiction with the university’s values of inclusion, diversity, and respect.” 
“I’d like to draw attention back to our policy and ask where exactly in that policy do we threaten Jewish identity,” Erin commented, “where we promote discrimination, and how sanctioning [and] divesting from companies complicit in settler colonialism is going to affect students on campus.”
Furthermore, Labeau claimed that the initiatives described in the policy are “in contradiction with the principles expressed by SSMU in its own constitution.” He explained that he had communicated this to SSMU leadership and “advised them to take prompt and appropriate remedial action.” At the March 24 Legislative Council meeting, SSMU President Darshan Daryanani, who was unable to attend live, shared a message with the council explaining that Labeau had sent him a Notice of Default on March 22 in regard to the MoA. According to article 12.2 of the MoA, in the event of such a default, the defaulting party has 30 working days to “remedy such default.” 
In his notice, Labeau allegedly claimed that “in no way can such a policy be considered to ‘facilitate communication and interaction between all students from all McGill communities’ or to ‘act in the best interests of [SSMU’s] Members as a whole.’ It will also clearly lead to discrimination based on characteristics such as race, national or ethnic origin, and religion.” Daryanani commented that “[SSMU] requires a certain degree of autonomy to effectively carry out our roles, and we fear that the statement made by McGill University severely encroaches on this ability.” 
“Democracy that McGill has championed so much ends where discourse that challenges the administration begins,” said Erin. “That’s such a fucked up, fragile demonstration of democracy […] it reveals that McGill does not actually champion democracy, but only extends it to narratives that don’t threaten its position,” they continued.
In the MRO, Labeau further communicated that if SSMU leadership fails to “take prompt and appropriate remedial action […] the University will terminate this Memorandum of Agreement.” Daryanani comments that the threat to terminate the MoA is of “particular concern.” The MoA allows SSMU to work alongside the university on many matters, namely the assessment and collection of fees from students and the operation of university accounts for such fees. Essentially, the termination of the MoA would prevent SSMU from receiving the fees that it currently solicits. 
“Anything that can actually bring some form of representation to Palestinians is deemed as controversial […] it’s ridiculous,” says Erin. According to them, the terms outlined in the policy are necessary, “and for McGill to condemn that […] and for that to be conflated with antisemitism, [it is] very clear on McGill’s part that it’s willing to do absolutely nothing for Palestinian students on campus.”
* Name changed to protect anonymity.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
McGill only offering minimum wage
On March 7, floor fellows in the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE) voted in favor of a strike mandate. Negotiations with the university have been ongoing since June 30, 2020, when the union first met with McGill to discuss their priorities for the next Collective Agreement (CA) – the previous CA expired shortly thereafter, on July 2, 2020. The union’s proposals have included both monetary and non-monetary requests: among the monetary requests are raised wages, an improved meal plan, and retroactive pay for the bargaining period; the non-monetary request for McGill to allow harm-reduction practices in residence has been conceded for now, in order to focus on the union’s monetary requests.
As of writing, McGill has not met the union’s demands. The university is offering minimum wage – which is currently $13.50/hour – for 13 hours of work per week. In an interview with the Daily, AMUSE President James Newman explained that the union initially asked for $18/hour (the same wage which the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec is advocating for), to which McGill countered a $13.64/hour wage. Later, the university retracted this offer, returning to the minimum wage. As of May 1, the minimum wage in Quebec will be raised to $14.25/hour; Newman said that the university dropped their $13.64/hour offer in anticipation of this raise. McGill told the union that the provincial minimum wage increase exceeds the university’s initial bargaining mandate, Newman claimed. According to a presentation* by Student Housing and Hospitality Services (SHHS), SHHS makes $62 million/year, so the university should be able to afford an $18/hour wage, Newman said. “Suzanne Fortier makes $860,00 a year and she’s not even first aid certified,” he joked, pointing out that paying floor fellows $16/hour (what the union is currently proposing) would cost 47 per cent less than this salary.
McGill has pointed to the fact that floor fellows are provided housing as a justification for their low wages, Newman said. According to calculations which the university sent to AMUSE, the hourly value of housing, combined with the current hourly wage, amounts to around $30/hour for downtown campus floor fellows and around $25/hour for Macdonald campus floor fellows. In an interview with the Daily, VP Floor Fellow Christian Tonnesen highlighted that room and board is a taxable benefit, resulting in tax deductions from floor fellows’ pay checks. “We’re taxed at full fair market value, which […] is astronomically high,” Tonnesen said, estimating that his own taxes are around $1600/month. These deductions have resulted in net-zero paychecks for many floor fellows, and when the deductions exceed one paycheck, McGill deducts money from future paychecks. “We have a snowball effect of where we have high deductions and high taxes, which then cause a rollover to the next paycheck and the next paycheck,” explained Tonnesen. 
When a floor fellow’s paycheck does not cover the high deductions for their housing, McGill may also deduct money from other university jobs held by the floor fellow: “Floor fellows who have other jobs are seeing their pay from those jobs deducted to cover the absurd deductions from their floor fellow jobs,” Newman told the Daily. “We have never gotten a clear answer from McGill about why this is happening […] People are paying for the privilege to work at McGill,” he continued. Tonnesen recounted that one former floor fellow had to take on multiple jobs at McGill to pay for the deductions associated with his floor fellow job, and claimed that he has spoken to many floor fellows with similar experiences. While this has been a common occurrence this year, it is highly unusual: “I’ve never had paychecks this low before […] having worked this job for three years I’ve never seen it this absolutely buck wild before,” Tonnesen said. However, the university has maintained that the way they pay for deductions has not changed, per Tonnesen. 
Alongside housing, the university provides a meal plan to floor fellows; however, Newman drew attention to several shortcomings in the current plan which the union hopes to rectify in the CA. According to him, the meal plan has remained stagnant at about $4500 per academic year – by Newman’s calculations, this comes out to about one and a half meals per day, given the rising prices of cafeteria food caused by inflation. Moreover, the meal plan is only valid in McGill cafeterias, but not all residences have a cafeteria nearby: while Solin Hall includes kitchens in every unit and residents at the Macdonald Campus make use of communal kitchens, these residences lack cafeterias. As such, floor fellows at these residences must travel to the downtown campus if they wish to use their meal plan – and McGill does not compensate floor fellows for the cost of commuting to campus from a faraway residence, Newman said. 
Tonnessen explained that in the case of Solin, floor fellows are provided with a saver meal plan, which has less money allocated to it than a traditional meal plan; the rest of the plan is made up of grocery cards. Newman also pointed out that the university did not change Solin floor fellow’s meal plans to account for remote activities during the 2020-2021 Academic Year – floor fellows still had to travel to campus to use their meal plan despite the lack of on-campus activities. The union has been advocating for the option of receiving half of Solin floor fellows’ meal plans in the form of grocery cards, but McGill has refused.
Furthermore, the fact that McGill houses floor fellows gives the university “a kind of leverage that very few employers have over their employees,” Newman said. During the strike vote, members raised concerns that the university may cut striking workers off from their meal plans or evict them from their dorms; anticipating these concerns, AMUSE requested that their parent union – the Public Service Alliance of Canada (PSAC) – fund alternative accommodations for striking floor fellows. During the strike actions of Saint Patrick’s Day weekend, PSAC arranged access to housing and food outside of McGill to “neutralize [the potential] threat” of McGill evicting striking workers, per Newman.
McGill is also refusing to retroactively pay AMUSE members, which Newman said “is highly unusual […] Retroactive pay is a basic component of every CA.” Typically, once a new CA has been signed, any new wage increases will be made retroactive to the expiry of the previous CA – this way, employers do not get the advantage of a wage freeze, which may encourage them to stall negotiations so they do not have to pay higher wages. While refusing retroactive pay is unusual, McGill has now done it twice this year – McGill is refusing to retroactively pay MUNACA members who retire prior to the signing of a new CA.
Working an emotionally taxing job at minimum wage has led many floor fellows to become disenchanted and burned out, sources told the Daily. “McGill has never really come around to taking seriously the notion that what floor fellows do is work,” Newman said, adding that he’s gotten the impression that the university thinks of floor fellows as “special students […] who should be happy with whatever McGill gives them and jump at the opportunity to do extra work.” He added that the university’s opposition to harm-reduction practices has caused “moral injury” to many floor fellows, who are now being treated as “discount security guards” mandated to report drug paraphernalia despite their opposition to criminalizing drug use. “If you’ve ever been curious about what burnout is like, apply to be a floor fellow.”
AMUSE is circulating an open letter which students can sign to support the strike efforts. Newman hopes that the AMUSE strike empowers other workers: “We are hoping for a victory here that will inspire other workers, especially residence assistants in universities without unions to organize and fight for a living wage and fair working conditions. Your support for us today will pay dividends for all workers tomorrow.”
*this presentation was not leaked to the Daily by Newman or Tonnesen.
Additional reporting provided by Eve Cable, who interviewed Christian Tonnesen.
Updates provided by Christian Tonnesen: Tonnesen would like to issue a correction that the value of the room is around $1600, with his taxes averaging closer to $750 per month. However, that tax rate is still wildly above what someone paid at $13.50 per hour should pay.Tonnesen would like to clarify that while he cannot confirm that a Floor Fellow took on multiple jobs, it is not outside of the realm of possibility. It is confirmed, however, that many Floor Fellows have dropped jobs at McGill as it’s not worth it, given the pay is just deducted to cover Floor Fellow deduction.Tonnesen would like to clarify that the proposal made to McGill by the Union at the time of publishing opted to give Solin Floor Fellows the option of receiving half of their meal plans entirely in the form of grocery cards, not the entirety of the meal plan.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
