The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Negotiations between the university and unions representing essential workers continue
Throughout the pandemic, essential workers have played an integral role in supporting the rest of the population. Unfortunately, workers at McGill often don’t see eye-to-eye with the university. The Daily spoke to two unions, the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) and the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM), who are currently involved in negotiations with the administration to demand better pay and working conditions.
MUNACA represents almost 2,000 support staff at McGill and is in the process of negotiating a new collective agreement since their previous one expired in 2018. One of their main demands is a salary that reflects the rising cost of living and the work they’ve done over the pandemic. “Traditionally, McGill salaries are lower than other universities’,” says president Thomas Chalmers. “Concordia for example, […] gave all their employees a $500 COVID stipend, [but McGill] has completely refused.” He adds that many employees have left McGill in favour of better pay and working conditions elsewhere. McGill is also refusing to retroactively pay workers who have left the university if they leave before a new collective agreement is signed. Even if MUNACA negotiates a better wage, workers who left after the previous contract expired will not receive the extra money.
In addition, MUNACA has also presented non-monetary demands to the administration, which include more schedule flexibility and recognition of the work that the support staff has been doing over the course of the pandemic. Chalmers says that they initially asked for the option of working remotely before the pandemic began in March 2020 but were refused. MUNACA is currently in conciliation, where a third party is brought into the negotiations to help the other two parties find an agreement.
AGSEM, which represents teaching assistants and invigilators at McGill, is involved in negotiations concerning both the January 2022 return to in-person teaching and a new collective agreement for invigilators. After hearing several members express concerns regarding the recent return to in-person teaching, president Mario Roy told the Daily that the union’s “main demand to the university is to make sure that all members are safe and have the right to choose whether or not they want to work in-person or remotely, when possible.”
With regards to the invigilator contract, AGSEM is opposing punitive responses to “no-shows” (invigilators who don’t show up to their shift), as well as demanding a safer working environment and an increase in wages. Roy says that “as of November 25, 2021, the Invigilator Bargaining Committee and the Employer have met fifteen times since the start of negotiations in March 2021.” There have been some victories for the Union, as Roy says that they have succeeded in “establishing a fair disciplinary process with progressive steps of disciplinary action” where supervisors are allowed to give invigilators a verbal warning before taking more severe disciplinary action. 
“As we always did since the beginning of the pandemic, we will continue to ensure that our members are safe and we will continue to fight for the most vulnerable people that McGill refuses to hear.”
However, one of the main priorities, a major increase in wages, has not been met. The current wage for invigilators is $13.88, barely above the provincial minimum wage. “The recent past has shown that the university has an enormous difficulty to accept wage increase or monetary compensation asked by unions even though they are absolutely legitimate, but we will defend our members until they obtain their demands, taking any necessary steps if needed,” says Roy.
MUNACA has also faced resistance from the administration. “The university completely refuses to recognize extraordinary efforts that our members have made to deal with the pandemic,” says Chalmers. As many MUNACA members are essential workers, they have been working throughout the entire pandemic. He also takes issue with the time the university has taken to respond to MUNACA’s demands. “I want to make it clear we’re not completely blaming the university for the length of the time it’s taken. However […] it is their practice to delay as much as possible and they continue to do that.”
“What we’d like the student body to know is what we would always like the student body to know […] that support workers at McGill do their best to ensure that it’s a good experience and that their needs are met while studying at McGill.” 
Additionally, McGill refuses to retroactively pay staff who retire before the signing of the new collective agreement, regardless of whether they need that money for their retirement. “At the same time, they can pay the principal $860,000,” says Chalmers. “I have been involved in unions for 45 years, and have never seen such a callous and cold attitude.”
The university is also resistant to AGSEM’s demands concerning the health of their members. “The university is still refusing to consider our […] grievances asking them to continue contact tracing for COVID and make N95 masks available for all our members,” Roy tells the Daily. “Despite evidence to the contrary provided by the Union, the Employer [McGill] maintains that their current measures to maintain cleanliness in the working environment as well as the protocols to reduce the spread of COVID-19 are sufficient.” After inaction from the administration, they’ve decided to take a more direct approach by asking anyone who experiences unsafe working conditions during the exam season to send photos to their Grievance Officer.
“The union is currently assessing possible next steps,” says Roy. “As we always did since the beginning of the pandemic, we will continue to ensure that our members are safe and we will continue to fight for the most vulnerable people that McGill refuses to hear.”
“What we’d like the student body to know is what we would always like the student body to know […] that support workers at McGill do their best to ensure that it’s a good experience and that their needs are met while studying at McGill,” says Chalmers. “We’ve had a lot of support in the past and we would hope to receive that kind of support going forward.” He recommends that students show solidarity by keeping an eye out for MUNACA’s future pressure tactics and making their support known to the administration.
“It’s always better to have a happy workforce, right?,” asks Chalmers. “A workforce that’s treated fairly and equitably, and I’m sorry to say that’s not happening at McGill University.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
What the latest protections mean for the future of the cultural and historic hub
In a January 24 virtual news conference, Quebec Minister of Culture and Communications Nathalie Roy announced the decision to classify parts of Montreal’s Chinatown as a heritage site, a hard-fought outcome for many activists and Chinatown residents. The area to be protected lies within de la Gauchetière, Rue St-Urbain, Rue Côté, and Avenue Viger, designated as the “institutional hub” of Chinatown by government officials.  
The newly assigned heritage block houses the historic British and Canadian School building, which is still in operation today as Wing Noodles, the oldest running business in Chinatown. The company is run by the three grandsons of Hee Chong Lee, an immigrant from China who started the business in 1897. The S. Davis and Sons cigar factory, built in 1884, will also gain heritage status, along with the historic city block which surrounds the two buildings. The area continues to serve as a cultural hub, home to active community organizations, a Buddhist temple, senior housing, and small businesses.  
This announcement comes alongside the City of Montreal’s adoption of interim measures which require any new construction projects to respect new specifications regarding the density and height of buildings, as well as increase historic Chinatown’s boundaries. May Chiu, a member of the Chinatown Working Group (CWG) and the Progressive Chinese of Quebec (PCQ), told the Daily that these new specifications are perhaps more significant than the province’s heritage designation as they will effectively “put a gel on many construction projects” threatening the community. 
Emphasizing the importance of these interim measures, Chiu cites nearby St. Laurent Boulevard, which was given heritage status by Parks Canada in 1997: “[there weren’t] any laws or regulation to underscore what historical protection meant – that’s why you see so many modern high rises on St. Laurent.” In contrast, the measures protecting Chinatown will regulate economic activity and specify what kind of development projects will be allowed to ensure the same doesn’t happen there. 
Though temporary measures until bylaws are established, these interim controls will serve as a moratorium to development that community members have been seeking since 2018, when Chinatown’s main cultural centre was lost to an outside creditor. This sounded alarms for many community members who feared the further loss of their neighbourhoods, leading to the creation of organizations like the CWG, a solidarity group originally stemming from the PCQ. In April 2021, the CWG released a detailed action plan to protect Chinatown and its heritage. The plan called for official heritage status, along with concrete actions such as the construction of affordable housing and the promotion of community gathering spaces.
A multi-level committee comprised of Chinatown community members and representatives from the Quebec and municipal governments was tasked with outlining the heritage protections to be accorded to Chinatown, an eight-month process spanning from October 2020 to June 2021. A final report compiled from these consultations resulted in the January 24 announcement. Chiu notes that it was important to make sure the whole community was involved in the consultation meetings – “[t]he Chinese community is very diverse, coming from a variety of different sectors, including small businesses, social service organizations, low-income residents, and seniors. When we talk about the plan for Chinatown, we have to take into consideration the needs of all this diversity”. 
While many community members see the new protections as significant steps in the right direction, a likely lengthy process towards a finalized plan lies ahead. At a January 24 outdoor press conference, activists and community organizations gathered to advocate for the immediate rights of residents to a better quality of life in Chinatown. Organizers held signs reading “Chinatown is not a museum,” referencing the need for heritage designation to encompass both tangible and intangible culture. “It’s about more than just streets and buildings,” says Chiu. 
“The Chinese community is very diverse, coming from a variety of different sectors, including small businesses, social service organizations, low-income residents, and seniors. When we talk about the plan for Chinatown, we have to take into consideration the needs of all this diversity.”
Residents spoke of the impacts of ongoing construction on their quality of life – “the dust, the smells, the noise […] it’s relentless […] I can’t even use my own yard,” said Kent Chong, an organizer and Chinatown resident. In the middle of the press conference, a construction worker came to ask the residents to move, stating that standing under the construction site raised safety concerns.  
According to Chiu, deeming Chinatown a historic site and pushing for all-encompassing heritage protection “doesn’t mean that it becomes a shell and that we let buildings dilapidate.” Instead, she argues for a “living heritage: people have to be protected, housing has to be protected, social services need to be provided.” 
The only remaining historic Chinatown in Quebec, Montreal’s Chinatown has fought development projects threatening the area since its establishment. In the 70s and 80s, Chinatown lost a significant amount of territory to real estate projects like the Guy Favreau Complex and Palais des Congrès.  
Developments continue to encroach on Chinatown’s neighbourhoods, including the REM project, an automated rail network criticized for supporting residential construction around its routes. CWG voiced opposition to the project, but its cancellation has not been confirmed. As community members continue to push against unabated development, they work against the rhetoric of big developers and contractors. “It will be really easy for the big developers to come in and say, we need to put in luxury, high-rise condos because we need to keep the economy running, and if we have more rich people [in the neighbourhood], it will keep the economy running,” Chiu told the Daily.  
[Chiu] argues for a “living heritage: people have to be protected, housing has to be protected, social services need to be provided.” 
“We have to push for a human vision of development, and the challenge will be how to make everything economically viable,” she continued. Chiu says that the city is currently focusing on building social housing units, a call from the CWG’s action plan. 
During the January 24 press conference, Montreal mayor Valérie Plante echoed the sentiments of community organizers. She said that while heritage protection is a “big step,” it is not the only one, pointing out that Chinatown’s increasing prices have been pushing out its current residents.  
The fight for Chinatown is multigenerational, encompassing family, community history, and deep connections to culture and language. Says community member Parker Mah, “…although a temporary moratorium is in place, the war is not over. A public consultation on the proposed changes will take place in the spring.”  According to Chiu, community organizers are currently mobilizing different sectors to participate in the public consultation towards the finalization of bylaws, along with specifying the roles of the many organizations working towards this goal. 
Regarding the upcoming consultation process, community members are preparing for a challenge. “We know that the huge developers with all their trillions of dollars are going to try to pack the consultation,” says Chiu. 
If you are interested in making submissions to the public consultation, which will be announced in the spring, you can contact the co-coordinator of the Chinatown Roundtable, Andy Vu, at andy.vu@faubourgstlaurent.ca.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
