The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Motion for Uyghur rights and McGill divestment from genocide moved to Council
On Monday, January 16 SSMU held its Winter 2023 General Assembly (GA) over zoom, in addition to being live streamed on Youtube. Yet,  the ongoing issue of low engagement and participation in student affairs permeated the meeting. As was the case at the Fall General Assembly – which became the Fall Consultative Forum due to low attendance – the student attendance rate was far from what was necessary in order to reach quorum. Less than 30 students were present, thus failing to meet the 350 members required to meet a quorum. 
Members of the GA started by raising the question of how to improve attendance and engagement and asked if there were any kinds of specific plans that were being put forward by SSMU. President  Risann Wright responded that “plans include having a comprehensive communication […] with online and virtual communication as well as posting around campus to promote the GA’s.” 
The meeting continued with discussion of the Motion Regarding Uyghur Rights and the Uyghur Genocide Divestment, moved by Samuel Massey and seconded by Leo Larman Brown. This issue was also brought forward when SSMU hosted an event on Uyghur Rights along with the Uyghur Rights Advocacy Project. McGill’s implications in the Uyghur Genocide were discussed by Kyle Matthews and MP Sameer Zuberi, amongst other pannelists. During the GA, the motion was presented by Samuel Macy as a “call for McGill to divest from the companies implicated in the Uyghur Genocide.”  Responding to the recent report written with the Uyghur Rights Advocacy Project concerning “McGill University’s Endowment Fund Complicity in Uyghur Genocide,” the motion moved is an attempt to expand the motion regarding the adoption of the divest for Human Rights Policy, which was voted to be approved back in the 2021 GA. The report states that out of its 1.9 billion dollar endowment fund, McGill invested more than 115 million dollars in 111 companies with potential implications in the Genocide of the Uyghur population in the Xinjiang region in China. In addition, the report categorized the different complicit companies in which McGill invests, from “low complicity companies” to “medium complicity companies” to “High complicity companies.” The latter involves  26 companies, amongst which “15 are partnered with the XPCC (Xinjiang Production and Construction Company), seven are reported to have participated in labour transfers, eight are reported to be involved with surveillance in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous  Region, and six companies appear on U.S. sanctions lists.” The XPCC is under four different sanctions in the US because of its connection to serious human rights abuses, which reportedly include “mass arbitrary detention and severe physical abuse, among other serious abuses targeting Uyghurs” as indicated by the US Department of Treasury in a 2020 statement. It is also the only Chinese company to be sanctioned in Canada, under the Special Economic Measures Act.  This short list includes companies such as Alibaba (in the textile industry), Tencent (in the tech and surveillance industry), and Daqo New Energy.
The members present at the GA expressed unanimous support for the motion. One member highlighted that “as a university and as members of our university we have the responsibility to make sure that the endowment fund goes towards good causes and not towards genocide.” Adding on to that, another member expressed  that “human violations shouldn’t be sponsored by our endowment fund.” A few students expressed their concerns about the effectiveness of this motion and continued to draw attention to the lack of responsiveness from the McGill administration since the beginning of calls for divestment from harmful entities such as fossil fuel companies, or in this case, companies complicit in human rights abuses. One of the members recalled to the assembly that  “we all know that for many years McGill has been ignoring everything that SSMU has been doing to divest from these companies.” To add on to this, a member spoke about the necessary caution SSMU needs to take when implementing this kind of motion since “there is a slim possibility that McGill may have a similar reaction to this as they did to the divest boycott and sanction motion which was successfully passed by referendum which resulted in McGill threatening SSMU’s existence.” In response to the comments made by attendees, Larman Brown underlined that the “difference with [their] movement was that there is broad political support for divestment from investments in [the genocide in] China.” Indeed, the matter has been taken to the Canadian Parliament, and numerous companies related to the Uyghur genocide are on Canada’s sanctions list. He added that “this is the first step in our long process, we [have] research to back us and we are looking to bring this right to the center of the administration.” As indicated in the motion, once adopted, it “would clarify SSMU’s commitments to solidarity with the victims of human rights abuses by establishing a well-defined set of criteria for divestment from entities tied to human rights abuses against Uyghurs.” 
After the statements, the motion was voted unanimously with 28 in favour. However, 28 is far from the 350 needed to reach quorum and therefore the meeting was established as a consultative forum. Subequently, on Thursday, January 19, the motion regarding Uyghur Rights and Uyghur genocide divestment was presented to the Legislative Council, and was passed with 17 votes in favour, one vote against and no abstentions. Some concerns were raised during the session about postponing the motion in order to wait and have the approval of the student body. Thus, the motion will be presented to the next Administrative Council. While it was not passed through direct democracy, it will retain the same legislative power as if it had been passed during the GA. 
When the Daily asked Larman Brown about the next steps of this new initiative that is part of the “clean universities campaign,” started in collaboration with URAP, he mentioned the continuation of research especially concerning the “division of investments between mutual funds and direct investments,” and emphasized  the “need to raise more awareness.” Most importantly, he highlighted the fact that the movement “doesn’t want to alienate [themselves] from the McGill administration” and that it is most important to establish a “dialogue with the McGill administration.” 
Monday’s GA continued with the Report of the Board of Directors presented by President Wright,  followed by the Reports of the executives. Wright highlighted the work on the Equity Diversity and Inclusion working group policy audit, a new Sustainable Development Goals policy draft which is scheduled to be released soon. They have also been working on different advocacy and representation campaigns including an initiative around housing and accommodations. In addition, the SSMU External Affairs is developing a permanent grocery program to aid students. 
Overall, student engagement during GA’s gives students the opportunity to bring forward motions and amendments that they feel are important. Furthermore, when successfully ratified, a motion can have greater symbolic significance because it is the result of direct democracy and therefore could be more convincing to the administration — specially for motions such as the one presented on Monday. As one student mentioned during the GA, “it is our duty as a Canadian and International university to pass this motion.”
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
9,000 patients could have received false negatives
This past December, CTV News Montreal reported that the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) had identified approximately 9,000 patients who might have received false negatives from recalled HIV tests. Although it is “extremely unlikely” that any false negative tests will be discovered, spokesperson Gilda Salomone told the Montreal Gazette, it was “theoretically possible” that a patient tested in an early stage of HIV infection (i.e., within the first two to three weeks after infection) could have obtained a false negative result.
Between December 2021 and September 2022, around 9,000 HIV tests were analyzed using a chemical reagent manufactured by Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, an in vitro diagnostics company. According to the MUHC, the company was forced to recall the reagent on September 2, 2022 after another laboratory in Canada reported a discrepancy during a routine evaluation. In a statement to CTV News, spokesperson Sandrine Pelletier of the MUHC described “a problem with one of the components” in two batches of the Ortho Clinical tests distributed across Quebec and Canada, but she noted that “the component of the test that detects established infection,” meaning antibodies against HIV, was not affected.
The laboratories that conducted the analyses between December 2021 and September 2022, which include St. Mary’s Hospital and Lakeshore General Hospital, are overseen by Optilab Montreal-MUHC. The MUHC has not been able to provide a complete list of the clinics, doctor’s offices, or hospitals from which patient samples might have been taken before they were sent to the labs. At the time of writing, the only location from which patient samples have been confirmed is Lasalle Hospital.
Once the recall was issued, the MUHC says it notified Quebec’s Ministry of Health, but neither organization announced the news to the public. The MUHC decided instead to send letters to patients’ doctors, but these letters were not received until December – a full three months after the recall.
One woman wrote to CTV News to express her frustration: “I’m furious. I’m absolutely livid about this whole thing. Thank God I’m all right, but there are 8,999 other people walking around who may or may not have HIV, and that’s concerning.” This woman was able to get retested, but she says she doubts “that they have been able to reach all 9,000 people before and during the holidays to warn them.”
Dr. Rejean Thomas of the clinic L’Actuel, which specializes in the treatment and prevention of HIV, was similarly distressed by the MUHC’s delay: “For me, it’s completely insufficient, unethical for a disease as severe as HIV is.” Now matter how low the risk of a false negative, he told CTV News that the recall should have been communicated to the public immediately.
“It’s a very serious diagnosis,” Dr. Thomas explained. “You could infect many other persons believing that you are HIV negative.”
According to Quebec’s Ministry of Health, some samples from the Ortho Clinical tests have yielded false negative results. The supplier has assured users, however, that false negatives have been reported only “very rarely” and that “the offending batches are no longer in use.
The state of HIV testing in Canada
Last August, at the International AIDS Conference in Montreal, the Canadian government announced a $17.9-million investment to increase access to HIV testing in remote communities and among hard-to-reach populations. Federal Health Minister Jean-Yves Duclos said the government would put $8 million toward the distribution of self-testing kits, which can be acquired anonymously and used at home, and $9.9 million toward expanding HIV testing in remote and isolated communities.
Meeting the needs of Indigenous peoples either living with HIV or at risk of HIV is a priority for advocates. Although Indigenous peoples represent just five per cent of Canada’s total population, they accounted for one in ten HIV infections in 2018. Studies from Ontario have found that Indigenous peoples living with HIV tend to be diagnosed later and that stigma and discrimination inhibit ease of access to services for Indigenous peoples.
However, the government’s announcement did not meet the expectations of some advocates and health care professionals who focus on HIV/AIDS. Jody Jollimore, the executive director of the Community-Based Research Centre, a Vancouver-based organization that works to promote the health of people of diverse genders and sexualities, told reporters at a news conference that “this was not what we were hoping for.” Jollimore’s organization is part of a coalition of community groups calling on the federal government to increase funding for HIV from around $73 million per year to $100 million per year.
“Communities affected by HIV continue to face stigma and discrimination that put us at an elevated risk of HIV infection and act as a barrier to testing treatment and care,” Jollimore said. He also noted that access to prevention tools such as pre-exposure prophylaxis, which can reduce the risk of contracting HIV from sex by about 99 per cent and from drug injection by about 74 per cent, remains inconsistent across Canada.
Advocates have also raised concerns that Canada’s health care facilities and long-term care homes are not equipped to treat older adults living with HIV. In an email to CTV News, Ken Miller, the executive director of the Canadian AIDS Society, explained that medical staff “are not being trained properly in the complexities of caring for people living with HIV,” while support workers “are usually trained even less.”
At AIDS 2022, the International Coalition of Older People with HIV announced ten calls to action to increase the lifespan and quality of life for older adults living with HIV. Their priorities include low-barrier access to care, healthy living conditions, targeted research and empowerment, combatting ageism, and considering sexual health a part of overall health.
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
