The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Examining McGill’s 2021-2022 audit
Every year, McGill is required to submit an audit to the Quebec government detailing the university’s spending, the salaries of upper administration, and performance reports, among other things. From this audit, journalists were able to find out about Principal and Vice-Chancellor Suzanne Fortier’s $800,000+ salary for the 2020-2021 academic year, a fact that received considerable media attention and scrutiny once it was publicized. As McGill has recently submitted its audit for 2021–2022, the Daily decided to look into how much our administration is being paid and how this has changed from the previous year.
The Quebec government mandates that individual salaries be displayed for members of senior administration, which consists of Principals and Vice-Chancellors, vice-presidents, deans, the secretary general, and anyone else of equivalent rank. In the document, which can be found on the National Assembly website, compensation for each member of McGill’s upper administration is divided into their base salary and additional taxable income they received. For example, in 2020–2021, Suzanne Fortier received a base salary of $478,901 with additional taxable income of $382,070, earning $860,971 in total. 
In 2021–2022, the total reported salaries of McGill administration members ranged from $147,603 to $595,325, with the average being $298,387 (Graph 1). The lowest-paid person was Robin Beech, Dean of Student Services, while the highest paid was Fortier. Fortier and David Eidelman, Vice-Principal and Dean of the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, were the only individuals whose total salaries decreased between 2020–2021 and 2021–2022. However, both saw an increase in their base salary, with Eidelman receiving the highest base salary of $533,624. Fortier, on the other hand, went from $478,901 to $492,543, a 2.8 per cent increase (Graph 2). 
“This year, in addition to base salary, other salary components for [Fortier] and [Eidelman] included the payment of their vested portions of the supplemental pension plan for certain senior University staff in consideration of years of service since the beginning of their respective terms,” said Frédérique Mazerolle, McGill’s Media Relations Officer, in a statement to the Daily.
“It’s important to understand that the Principal’s compensation plan is comparable to those of the heads of other U15 universities across Canada,” Mazerolle continued. In comparison to her $595,325, Fortier’s Concordian counterpart Graham Carr made $466,882 in total. Fortier’s successor, Deep Saini, made $558,154 in 2021-2022 as President of Dalhousie University. 
While the total compensation received by most members of senior administration seems to have increased from 2020–2021, we did not find a statistically significant difference between overall total compensation in 2021–2022 versus 2020–2021. However, when looking at base salaries, we found that there was a statistically significant increase from 2020–2021. The average base salary was $283,522 in 2021–2022 compared with $276,102 in 2020–2021. 
“Salaries are determined on the basis of the qualifications of the incumbent and the relevant market data for the position,” explained Mazerolle.
The individual who received the highest pay increase in both total compensation and base salary was Dr. Samuel Benaroya, Associate Vice-Principal and Vice-Dean of Health Affairs. Benaroya’s total compensation increased from $223,233 to $356,196 (60 per cent increase), while his base salary increased from $223,141 to $338,775 (52 per cent increase).
Deans
Looking specifically at the Deans, it’s clear that Eidelman received the highest salary of all of them in every category (Graph 3). After Eidelman, Yolande Chan and Morty Yalovsky from the Faculty of Management received the greatest compensation. Aside from Beech, Arts Interim Deans Mary Hunter and James Engle-Warnick received the lowest salaries.
How does that compare to professors?
The Daily used data from January 2022 prepared by Analysis, Planning, and Budget to look at the median salaries of full-time McGill faculty in order to put the salaries of senior administration into perspective. At McGill, faculty can be divided into tenured or tenure-track professors and contract academic staff (CAS). Out of all the positions, full professors with tenure or a tenure-track position had the highest median salary at $180,161. The lowest-paid position was that of faculty lecturer, a CAS position that focuses mainly on teaching, with a median salary of $86,582. 
When comparing the salaries of tenured professors within each faculty, there was little variation in the median salaries of each position (full professor, associate professor, assistant professor) except for those of professors in the Desautels Faculty of Management, who earned more than their counterparts in other faculties. As shown in Graph 4, the median salaries for Desautels faculty members are large outliers compared with the median salaries for the same positions in other faculties. We were unable to do a similar comparison for non-tenured faculty as data on their salaries was often not provided for privacy reasons due to a low number of CAS positions in each individual faculty.
When comparing the median salary of full professors to their respective deans (Graph 5), we found that in most cases, when the dean of a faculty had a higher salary in relation to their counterparts, the professors of that faculty did as well. One notable exception was the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, where Dean Eidelman received a base salary of $533,624 while the median salary for professors in that faculty was $185,386.
Other management staff
In addition to the senior administration, the university also has to report data on the salaries of the staff managing the components of the institution (which includes faculties, schools, departments, institutes, etc), the administrative staff for services, and the management personnel of the support staff. For these positions, instead of listing individual salaries, the university provides the highest salary, the lowest salary, and the average salary. Overall, staff working with components of the institution were paid the most, while those managing the support staff were paid the least. The lowest base salary recorded for 2021–2022 was $57,330, a difference of $476,294 compared with Eidelman’s. 
While every member of the senior administration’s base salary increased, this was not the case for other management staff (Graph 6). The highest salary recorded for someone working for one of the components of the institution dropped by $94,320, from $400,000 to $305,680. The lowest and average salaries for that category also decreased. The highest salary for the management of support staff also decreased, and none of the categories saw a large increase in base salary.
Not everyone satisfied with their salary last year
In the 2021–2022 academic year, many unions, including the McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) and the Association of Graduate Students Employed at McGill (AGSEM), came into conflict with the administration over their members’ salaries. The Floor Fellows, represented by the Association of McGill University Support Employees (AMUSE), also went on strike demanding higher wages and retroactive pay from the administration. MUNACA president Thomas Chalmers told the Daily that McGill generally pays its employees less than other universities do. 
“The recent past has shown that the university has an enormous difficulty to accept wage increase or monetary compensation asked by unions even though they are absolutely legitimate,” Mario Roy, president of AGSEM, told the Daily in an interview last year. 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
The McGill Daily
The McGill Daily
Divest McGill’s Campaign Faces Urgent Call to Action 
On February 8, at the Board of Governors (BoG) meeting, several Governors asked the Board to pass a motion on the question of divestment from the fossil fuel industry. For over ten years, McGill community members have been calling for action from the Board and its Committee to Advise on Matters of Social Responsibility (CAMSR) to divest from fossil fuels, citing the urgency of the climate crisis, and more recently, the commitments of various Canadian and American universities to fully divest from fossil fuels. 
Following the CAMSR’s meeting on March 16, the Board’s decision on the question of accelerating a review of its current socially responsible investment (SRI) practices will take place on April 20. If current plans are kept in place, any changes to the university’s position on divestment will not come until the spring of 2025. 
For students who have been involved in the fight for divestment, the days leading up to April 20 are crucial. Alex Foster, a member of Divest McGill, told the Daily that “this is kind of the last chance for divestment for a while,” which places pressure on Divest to convince the board to take action now. “It feels pretty urgent… having these reconsiderations out of nowhere,” says Foster.
Divest members participated in the Board’s community session at their February 8 meeting and handed out flyers to Board members beforehand that laid out the importance of institutional divestment and its implications for climate policy, the environmental consequences of not divesting, and financial arguments for divesting. “As we arrived at the community session, [a Board member] said that they were just having a heated discussion about divestment before we got there,” Foster told the Daily. “It’s good if it’s heated because it means there are people who are passionate on the Board in one way or another.” 
The last time that the Board considered the question of divestment was during a two-year review period between 2018-2020. This review resulted in the implementation of a plan to decarbonize the university’s endowment fund through a “prudent yet ambitious strategy that includes divestment from highly carbon-intensive companies, including those within the fossil fuel industry,” according to an email sent from McGill Communications on February 27. 
In a question addressed to the Board, a community member noted that McGill is the only major university in Montreal that has not announced a commitment to divestment. They also listed a number of major universities that have committed to total divestment from the fossil fuel industry, including Harvard, Oxford, Cambridge, and the University of Toronto. Indeed, over 100 US schools and ten Canadian schools have made partial or full commitments to divest from fossil fuels, which advocates of divestment at McGill see as a clear indicator of the university falling behind in terms of its commitment to sustainability. Foster sees the rising number of universities committing to divestment as a hopeful point toward convincing the Board to follow suit – “it’s different now that universities like [University of Toronto] and prestigious American universities [have divested]. Now that it’s coming closer and closer to home – I think that’s what matters to them.” 
The April 2023 announcement has presented a crucial opportunity for Divest to take action, calling for changes in campaigning and messaging. A principle argument that Divest and other proponents of divestment have used relates to the term “social injury,” which is listed in the CAMSR’s mandate as “the grave injurious impact which the activities of a legal person is found to have on consumers, employees, or other persons, or on the natural environment.” The CAMSR has denied a finding of social injury based on their investments in fossil fuels, which would be required for their official divestment. Considering Divest has focused on this argument in the past, Foster says that the campaign may need to change strategies to achieve its goals. “[The Board] had no discussion of social injury in their report. That’s not really what they were looking at,” she told the Daily. Based on the Board’s lack of acknowledgment of social injury in the past and focus on financial consequences instead, “even if they change [their] mind now, nothing has changed in terms of social injury — that would show that it’s not about social injury.” 
Instead, Divest is beginning to look toward potential financial gains that may come from divesting from fossil fuels to support its campaign. Taichi Saito, another member of Divest, spoke on Divest’s potential shifts in strategy to target the Board’s interests: “there is more and more research about the financial aspect of divestment, so we plan on talking to management professors,” he told the Daily. “There’s been a lot of improvement in renewable energy sources and technologies such as solar panels in the last decade… We often hear arguments about how Canada has a lot of oil and gas in its territory, but I think the faster we stop exploiting these resources, the faster we’ll be able to shift towards renewable energies and be independent of oil and gas markets.” 
Foster expressed her frustration at the Board’s handling of the session and their general unwillingness to listen to the rest of the McGill community on the matter of divestment: “they’re running out of excuses,” she told the Daily. “After the occupation last year, the realization that the university doesn’t really care about what the students think, and that even if we manage to get the whole student population aware of divestment, it wouldn’t really affect the Board. It’s been a bit disheartening.” Foster references Divest’s occupation of the Arts building last year in support of decolonization, democratization, and divestment. The occupation lasted for over two weeks, making it the longest occupation of a university building in McGill’s history. 
For Foster and many other members of the McGill community, the fight for divestment has further revealed the need for a democratization of McGill. “It’s a shame that at this specific moment where they make this decision [about whether to divest], it will be equally influenced by Board members or other universities [placing pressure on McGill to follow suit]. If the union was democratic, we would have divested already because the Senate and the students have already voted for it,” she told the Daily. 
“The fundamental problem of the university being undemocratic and not caring about what the students or staff want — that will just keep coming up again and again, whether it’s divestment or not,” Foster added. 
Regardless of the decision that is made on April 20, there is still a long way to go for Divest and other student movements that have been a part of efforts to divest. Foster notes that even if McGill commits to partial or total divestment in its endowment fund, it will likely continue to fund fossil fuel companies through its pooled funds. “McGill needs to divest from ‘actual’ fossil fuel companies, but [a large proportion of] McGill’s investments go into pooled funds, which have loads of problems on their own. That’s a whole other avenue for Divest to go down,” says Foster. “Divest will still need to exist – it just might not look the same as it did before.” 
Radio
Download file | Play in new window | Duration: 1:00:28
Tweets by @mcgilldaily
© 1911-2023 The McGill Daily | WordPress theme based on Neve | Powered by WordPress
